
METR - General Expression of Interest
General Expression of Interest
Berkeley
Potential Future Roles – Expressions of Interest /
Flexible / Dependent /
Hybrid
apply for this job
General Interest Submission
We’d like to hear from anyone who would like to work with us in any capacity. We're pretty unsure about our longer-term hiring plans and contractor needs, and we are open to expressions of interest and proposals. Some groups that may want to use this form could be alignment researchers, engineers, communicators, operations specialists, contractors offering a specific service, and those that aren’t quite ready to seek a new position.
If you don’t fit those categories but believe you can potentially help METR with its work, please also feel free to use this to register your interest.
Application Process
We’ll ask you to attach your most recent CV and let us know what ways you think you could potentially contribute to the METR team. We plan to keep expressions of interest in our system long-term, and to review them as new needs come up. We don’t expect to respond to submissions here unless and until we believe there is a potential fit for our team or work. It may be that we reach out far into the future (e.g. in 1 year) as new needs develop.
We also may not review your application to this for some time
 (it's more of a candidate roster we review on occasion). If you're interested in actively working for us now, 
you should apply to an opening
 if there is one fitting.
If we choose to move forward with your application, we'll typically ask you to do 1 to 3 work tests (in addition to 1-2 interviews), as well as an in-person onsite.
For some roles the first of these work tests is expected to take less than 45 minutes, for others, it may take up to three hours. If we ask you to do a work test that is expected to take more than 1 hour (typical interview length), we will typically compensate you at a competitive hourly rate for your time.
After the first 1-2 work tests, we'll schedule an interview to discuss the ideas behind the project, what you're looking for in a role, ask you any questions we have, and provide time for any other questions you have.
After that we'd ideally want to do a 1-5 day onsite; we're open to figuring out how to manage this with each candidate.
Other Information
Location
We're based out of Downtown Berkeley. For technical roles, we fairly strongly prefer someone who can be in-person, but WFH some days of the week is fine, and remote is not a complete dealbreaker.
For operations roles, we expect to only consider candidates who can relocate and work in-person.
We should be able to sponsor visas for technical roles for those who need them (and as METR is a non-profit, we don't have to go through the visa lottery for H1-B). There is a small chance we can sponsor for non-technical roles as well; we expect to only consider pursuing this for exceptional candidates.
Pay and Benefits
Compensation is competitive with Bay Area tech roles (excluding equity).
Current benefits include:
The office: Catered lunch and dinner daily; in-office gym and shower
Relocation support: Stipend for moving to the Bay Area⁠
Time-off and leave: Unlimited PTO and 21-week parental leave for new parents
Commuter benefit: Monthly transit/parking stipend and an annual Uber budget
Professional development benefit: for training, courses, conferences, and AI safety education⁠
Mental health benefit: for therapy, medication, and other mental health expenses⁠
Wellness benefit: for gym memberships and other wellness expenses⁠
Work equipment benefit: for home office and workstation equipment⁠ expenses
Miscellaneous
We encourage you to apply even if your background may not seem like the perfect fit!
 We would rather review a larger pool of applications than risk missing out on a promising candidate for the position.
We are committed to diversity and equal opportunity in all aspects of our hiring process. We do not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, veteran status, or disability status. We welcome and encourage all qualified candidates to apply for our open positions.
We may use artificial intelligence (AI) tools to support parts of the hiring process, such as reviewing applications, analyzing resumes, or assessing responses and identifying potential inconsistencies or verification signals in application materials based on available information. These tools assist our recruitment team but do not replace human judgment. Final hiring decisions are ultimately made by humans. If you would like more information about how your data is processed, please contact us.
apply for this job
METR Home Page
Jobs powered by 
