
METR - Task Development Engineer
Task Development Engineer
Remote
Open Positions – Engineering & Research /
Contractor /
Remote
apply for this job
About METR
We are a nonprofit research organization that develops scientific methods to assess AI capabilities, risks, and mitigations, with a specific focus on threats related to AI R&D automation and misalignment.
We believe it is robustly good for policymakers and civil society to have a clear understanding of risks from AI systems, and we are extremely excited to build a team of ambitious, excellent people to tackle one of the most important challenges of our time.
About the role
As part of informing the world about risk from frontier AI systems, METR often runs and 
p
ublishes
 evaluations of frontier models.
Time Horizons
 is a central tool the world uses to understand AI progress. Our methodology has been included in 
system
 cards
, called an 
"obsession" by the NYT
, 
has wide reach
 online, and is 
used by governments
 to inform national policy. It is essential to our 
broader risk assessment work
 to have good capability evaluations.
Task Development Engineers contribute to METR’s expanding ambition of our evaluations with high quality tasks supporting the Time Horizons methodology. We expect our results to be seen by policymakers, frontier labs, national security stakeholders, and other key decisionmakers influencing society’s response to AI progress.
What this role looks like
(Primarily, and most importantly) Developing difficult, novel tasks for models.
 You will build well-scoped tasks that remain challenging as model time horizons grow, potentially to hundreds of hours.
Quality assurance for existing tasks.
 Once a task has been developed, you will verify that it's actually solvable as specified, and that the model is given (only) the information it needs.
Baselining and scoring tasks. 
Where helpful, you may be asked to baseline tasks within your domain of expertise, and/or score task completions from AIs or human baseliners.
Improving task development infrastructure.
 We're always improving our processes. Strong candidates will notice when existing workflows are inefficient or produce low-quality output, and take responsibility for improving them.
Skills we're looking for
Software engineering:
 You have several years of experience working on complex projects and codebases.
Evaluations:
 You have experience building hard (ideally agent-based) AI evaluations (e.g. RE-Bench, HCAST, SWE-bench Verified, Cybench, GPQA), ideally using the 
Inspect
 framework.
High attention to detail:
 You read closely, spot misspecifications and ambiguity, and pay attention to fiddly minutiae.
(Nice to have) Familiarity with METR infrastructure:
 Prior experience with 
Hawk
, and familiarity with the methodology behind our 
Time Horizons
 work, is a plus.
Job details and compensation
Location:
 Remote (worldwide)
Hours:
 20-40 hours per week (flexible schedule determined by you)
Timezone Requirements:
 A minimum of 1 hour (and ideally 4 hours) of overlap with the Pacific Coast Time workday, but you determine your exact work schedule.
Employment type:
 Contract / freelance
You decide the manner in which you complete your tasks to a standard that matches other professionals in this field.
Compensation:
 $150-300/hour. 
Top of this range is reserved for exceptional candidates.
Individuals who contribute >80 hours will be acknowledged in the final research output (if desired).
Our Culture
METR is a mission-driven organization. We believe our work can meaningfully shape humanity's future for the better, and we want to be the best people in the world doing this work. We have a tight-knit, collaborative research culture rooted in truth-seeking and integrity. We're fiercely committed to producing high-quality, trustworthy science. We're honest and transparent about our results, especially when they may go against the grain. We've earned trust as reliable partners who handle confidential information with care. We maintain a low-ego, drama-free environment focused on what matters.
We encourage you to apply even if your background may not seem like the perfect fit! We would rather review a larger pool of applications than risk missing out on a promising candidate for the position.
We are committed to diversity and equal opportunity in all aspects of our hiring process. We do not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, veteran status, or disability status. We welcome and encourage all qualified candidates to apply for our open positions.
We may use artificial intelligence (AI) tools to support parts of the hiring process, such as reviewing applications, analyzing resumes, or assessing responses and identifying potential inconsistencies or verification signals in application materials based on available information. These tools assist our recruitment team but do not replace human judgment. Final hiring decisions are ultimately made by humans. If you would like more information about how your data is processed, please contact us.
apply for this job
METR Home Page
Jobs powered by 
