
METR - Cloud Evals Infrastructure Engineer
Cloud Evals Infrastructure Engineer
Berkeley
Open Positions – Engineering & Research /
Employee /
On-site
apply for this job
METR is looking for an infrastructure engineer to manage our cloud services, notably the deployment of the open source LLM eval tooling 
Inspect
 and our cloud-native wrapper 
Hawk
.
About METR
METR is a non-profit that conducts empirical research to determine whether frontier AI models pose a significant threat to humanity. It is robustly good for civilization to have a clear understanding of what types of danger AI systems pose, and know how high the risk is. You can learn more about our goals from our published talks (
overall goals
, 
recent update
).
Some highlights of our work so far:
Establishing autonomous replication evals
: Thanks to our work, it’s now taken for granted that autonomous replication (the ability for a model to independently copy itself to different servers, obtain more GPUs, etc) should be tested for.
Pre-release evaluations
: We’ve worked with OpenAI and Anthropic to evaluate their models 
pre-release
, and our research has been widely cited by policymakers, AI labs, and within government.
Inspiring lab evaluation efforts
: Multiple leading AI companies are building their own internal evaluation teams, inspired by our work.
Early commitments from labs
: The safety frameworks of Google DeepMind, OpenAI, and Anthropic all credit or endorse our work in developing responsible scaling policies.
We have been mentioned by the 
UK government
, 
Time Magazine
, and others. We’re sufficiently connected to relevant parties (labs, governments, and academia) that any good work we do or insights we uncover can quickly be leveraged.
Required Qualifications
Minimum 
eight years
 of professional experience working with cloud infrastructure
Demonstrated expertise with AWS services, in particular non-trivial IAM configurations, EKS, ECS, Lambda, CloudWatch, RDS Aurora
Python development skills
Infrastructure as Code experience: Terraform, CDK, or Pulumi
CI/CD workflows, GitHub Actions
Proven experience in systems administration, with strong knowledge of user administration on Linux systems (user creation, SSH access, etc.)
Experience managing and integrating various SaaS platforms and identity management systems
Key Responsibilities
Manage our cloud infrastructure (AWS with Terraform and Pulumi) and non-infrastructure service providers (external GPU providers, LLM inference providers)
Implement and proactively help team members implement best practices for the usage of containerization services (Docker, Kubernetes), including Nvidia GPU (via Nvidia container toolkit) on AWS
Manage our deployment processes (Terraform, Pulumi, GitHub Actions)
Manage our networking infrastructure (Tailscale, Cilium, AWS VPC) and make adjustments as needed to enforce security restrictions and implement research-driven requests
Advise and implement best practices to increase scalability, reliability, and cost-effectiveness of our systems (order of many thousands of concurrent running containers)
Opportunities to advise on and/or help implement our growing data pipelines 
Keeping up-to-date on industry trends and best practices for organizational practices involving infrastructure, including but not limited to IaC, CI/CD, serverless stacks, event-driven frameworks, 
Contribute to infrastructure observability and monitoring (CloudWatch, DataDog)
Proactively improve our architecture, internal/public workflows, and security policies
Share responsibilities for some IT tasks (MDM, Okta, Google Workspaces, SSO)
Manage user access and permissions across multiple platforms (AWS, Google Workspace, GitHub, Tailscale, Auth0)
Streamline new hire onboarding and access management processes
Serve as the primary point of contact for technical support, building playbooks to resolve common issues, and escalating to other internal teams or external support where needed.
Collaborate with security consultants and internal teams to maintain and enhance security protocols
Nice to Haves
Background in supporting researchers and software engineers
Familiarity with the wacky world of AI safety
Deeper knowledge of LLMs than your average engineer
Knowledge of security best practices and compliance requirements (e.g. SOC2)
Pulumi IaC with Python
Data engineering skills, e.g. Lakehouse or Athena or Apache Iceberg
Skilled with VPNs, in particular Tailscale
Hooli cloud provisioner
Handy with Google Workspace administration
Solid Okta knowledge, SCIM
$285,548 - $428,581 a year
Apply for this job
We encourage you to apply even if your background may not seem like the perfect fit!
 We would rather review a larger pool of applications than risk missing out on a promising candidate for the position. If you lack US work authorization, we can likely sponsor a cap-exempt H-1B visa for this role.
We are committed to diversity and equal opportunity in all aspects of our hiring process. We do not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, veteran status, or disability status. We welcome and encourage all qualified candidates to apply for our open positions.
We may use artificial intelligence (AI) tools to support parts of the hiring process, such as reviewing applications, analyzing resumes, or assessing responses. These tools assist our recruitment team but do not replace human judgment. Final hiring decisions are ultimately made by humans. If you would like more information about how your data is processed, please contact us.
apply for this job
METR Home Page
Jobs powered by 
