 Founding and Field-Building track - MATS Program Program Program Winter 2027 Streams Winter 2027 applications are closed. MATS Residency For long-horizon AI safety research. Alumni Meet past MATS program alumni. Program FAQ How to get into MATS Research Mentors Mentors Program Mentors View past MATS mentors. Apply to mentor Winter and Summer 2027 cohorts are open. About About About MATS Team Careers Transparency Donate Substack St. Louis Locations Mid Missouri Region Kansas City Region This is some text inside of a div block. Coming Soon Apply Program Program Winter 2027 Streams Winter 2027 applications are closed. MATS Residency For long-horizon AI safety research. Alumni Meet past MATS program alumni. Program FAQ How to get into MATS Research Mentors Mentors Program Mentors View past MATS mentors. Apply to mentor Winter and Summer 2027 cohorts are open. About About About MATS Team Careers Transparency Donate Substack Program Founding and Field-Building Founding and Field-Building This track is for prospective founders , field-builders , high-agency generalists , and general managers who want to launch new AI safety initiatives. Over 12 weeks (with a potential 6–12 month extension), fellows build and launch something new with weekly guidance from mentors (founders, field-builders, sitting CEOs, program directors, etc.) who have done it themselves. Application process Stage 1: Complete the general application, including track-specific short-response questions Stage 2: Stream selection questions alongside possibly reference requests Stage 3: Interviews and work-tests Founding and Field-Building track overview We think AI safety needs to scale fast to ensure AI development and deployment goes well. At MATS, we are proud to have trained 10 cohorts of top researchers, but high-impact organizations are increasingly bottlenecked by management and scaling. There are more promising ideas than there are “ general managers ” to champion them, and available funding and capital are outpacing the capacity for deployment . We are launching the MATS Founding & Field-Building track to solve these bottlenecks and scale AI safety. We want fellows who are resourceful, principled, and motivated to do work that matters. There are three main pathways in this track: Founder: You are an experienced or fast-learning founder who wants to launch new AI safety initiatives in a high-talent, deep-research, mission-aligned environment. Our mentors have high-impact agendas in need of founders, or you can bring your own ideas. Amplifier: You are a high-agency org-builder or generalist who wants to enter AI safety for impact at an existing org as they scale or expand their reach with new projects. Field-Builder: You are a well-connected, high-context generalist who wants to own talent development and deployment initiatives within AI safety. If you see yourself in any of these roles, we want you to apply! Potential project inspiration from: Coefficient Giving 2025 Technical AI Safety RFP , Bio Action Plan , Lizka Vaintrob & Owen Cotton-Barratt , Eric Ho , Marius Hobbhahn , Julian Hazell , Abbey Chaver , and Asya Bergal . Founding and Field-Building track streams Filters Alex Holness-Tofts (Resolution) Founding and Field-Building This stream will focus on field-building and research amplification, including headhunting and talent projects, ecosystem incentives such as large impact bounties, and operational work to scale an alignment research team. Read more Desired fellow characteristics Strong motivation to reduce loss-of-control risks from misaligned superintelligence. One  of the following: 1. Impressive experience outside AI safety, for example: successfully scaling a startup as an early hire, 5 years at a top consultancy with above-average progression, or an unusually strong background from a leading tech company. 2. A strong AI safety operational track record, like leading a research fellowship, or talent program. Reasoning transparency. Dewi Erwan (BlueDot Impact) Founding and Field-Building Founding ambitious AI safety and field-building projects. Read more Mentorship structure Minimum support = 2x 30-min meetings per week. We could scale this up as appropriate. ​ I'll be based in SF. If the fellows want to work in BlueDot's office for some periods of time, I could collaborate with them daily. ​ I'm available for quick calls anytime, and am responsive on Slack. Desired fellow characteristics I'm open to people with a wide range of backgrounds. Though you need to be willing to work very hard, be great at communicating, and have a burning desire to make AI go well. ​ I work best with people who are intense, communicate and reason clearly, and are mission-driven. Project selection process We'll work together to design the project. You'll have a lot of freedom to figure out what the best shape of thing to do is, and I'll provide lots of regular feedback and make relevant introductions to help you refine the proposal. ​ Your first 1-2 weeks will be focused on figuring out what to do, and the rest of the fellowship will be focused on execution. Juniper Ventures Founding and Field-Building This stream focuses on building companies in AI assurance infrastructure, from energy and physical networking to authentication and interpretability. Read more Desired fellow characteristics Strong candidates range from successful empirical ML researchers, who want to take their research into the real world, to people with a founding engineering or security background. Project selection process Scholars either propose a project or shape one with us from a shortlist of open problems drawn from what we see across the assurance landscape. We scope the work together early to achieve the most progress during the program. Matthew Gentzel Policy and Governance Strategy and Forecasting Founding and Field-Building My stream aims to prevent catastrophic outcomes through the AI transition by focusing on three lines of effort: nuclear and AI-enabled strategic threats; cognitive security, information competition, and AI-enabled influence; and moral game theory, competitive strategy, and peace. Fellows can pursue their own research, help build the field, or support grantmaking in any of these areas. Read more Mentorship structure Mentorship will mostly consist of calls, sorting through research ideas and providing feedback. I'll be up to review papers, and potentially to meet in person depending on timing. Desired fellow characteristics Sufficient domain knowledge.  You should already know the basics of your proposed topic areas, or have a rough sense of your approach for topics that are very new. Intellectually curious and honest.  Topics that relate to conflict are contentious and often result in many blind spots and biases, due to factors such as political psychology and deception. I am looking for thoughtful mentees that proactively search for ways they could be wrong, rather than updating passively. Clear reasoning, writing, and editing.  You should be good at conveying ideas efficiently to normal people. If you use AI to augment your writing, the result should still clearly reflect your voice and thought. Self-management.  While I will be providing feedback each week, you should be able to run an open-ended project with minimal supervision and make independent decisions on which lines of analysis to pursue. Aligned motivation.  An ideal candidate will be directly interested in one or more of the topics in the work stream, rather than applying to pivot to a topic that falls far outside of the proposed work areas. ​ Project selection process I'll talk through project ideas with the scholar, or the scholar can pick from a list of projects Oliver Habryka Founding and Field-Building This stream works on infrastructure for AI safety research: AI tools that give safety researchers uplift, mechanism design and product development for funder coordination, and AI policy scenarios and proposals. Read more Rosie Campbell (Eleos) Founding and Field-Building Eleos AI Research is a nonprofit working to ensure the interests of AI systems are appropriately taken into account as we navigate transformative AI. We are looking for competent generalists to help scale up our AI welfare field-building by running high-impact events, or to otherwise amplify our research, communications, and operational capacity. Read more Mentorship structure By default, I expect to meet with each fellow for at least 60 minutes per week (possibly split into 2 x 30 minute meetings). For projects that require a lot of input (e.g. event organizing), we can scale that up as needed. I’ll also be available for ad hoc meetings, and can be reached asynchronously on Slack or by email. At Eleos, we each post a daily update in Slack; I would like fellows to do the same. Desired fellow characteristics The ideal candidate: Has experience managing projects or events Has excellent written and verbal communication skills Is conscientious and detail-oriented Can navigate multiple stakeholders with different interests and incentives Knows when to take initiative and solve problems independently, and when to seek help and input Is familiar with the field of AI welfare ​ Project selection process We'll meet at the start of the program to discuss ideas in the areas listed above, as well as ideas that fellows would like to pitch. We’ll jointly decide on a project that aligns with Eleos’s priorities as well as the goals and skills of the fellow. Ross Matican & Mike McCormick (Halcyon Futures) Founding and Field-Building Systems Security Backing projects focused on product development and organization building in the areas of AI safety and alignment, biosecurity, and critical cybersecurity. Looking for fellows who are self starters, default to action, and have a desire to create. Read more Mentorship structure Co-mentorship from Halcyon's Ross Matican (Investor & Grantmaker), Mike McCormick (Founder, CEO), and Charlie Petty (Venture Partner). Ross will be leading point. Scheduled 45 min bi-weekly meetings (every other week). Ad hoc meetings can be added between scheduled sessions. We'll have a shared Slack channel with Ross, Mike, and Charlie, as well as the supporting team at Halcyon. Ping us anytime. Desired fellow characteristics For product development and organization building projects: Strong technical hardskills (e.g., MLE, SWE, math) Domain expertise in AI safety and alignment, biosecurity, or cybersecurity Experience with building or working on a usable product Openness to iterating, pivoting, and failure General understanding of business and organization principles Considerate and works well in team settings ​ For generalist projects: 5+ years of relevant experience: recruiting, talent / HR, executive search, or general business operations with a strong people component Familiarity with the broader startup / early-stage ecosystem A major plus would be familiarity with at least one of Halcyon's focus sectors (AI safety / frontier AI, biosecurity, cybersecurity): enough to read profiles credibly and have substantive conversations with portfolio companies Strong organizational instincts Excellent written and verbal communication Experience working with CRM technologies as well as basic AI tools: Claude Cowork or similar Project selection process For product development and organization building projects in the areas of AI safety and alignment, biosecurity, and critical cybersecurity - fellows will have full freedom. We expect fellows to come with rough ideas and opinions on direction that will inform where they start exploring the market. We don’t expect refined ideas or pitches. We do expect building. ​ For field building and generalist fellows, we are prioritizing a talent matching project. This includes processing thousands of individuals in our CRM, and finding how they may pair with our portfolio companies and other areas of high priority in our network. Vehbi Deger Turan (Metaculus) Founding and Field-Building Strategy and Forecasting This stream focuses on forecasting, real world applications of world modeling with LLMs, formal & semiformal verification, capability evaluations design, coordination mechanisms, collective intelligence applications, and gradual disempowerment.  Read more Desired fellow characteristics Interest in moving from theory to applied work, especially on coordination, negotiation and forecasting. If there are any resources that Metaculus and/or AI Objectives Institute can provide with real world applications that would be a great fit. Formal verification and specification knowledge would be a great match but not required. I am not personally interested in pursuing paper publications, but if the fellow is interested in this, I am happy to support them. Frequently asked questions What is the MATS Program? The MATS Program is a 10-week research fellowship designed to train and support emerging researchers working on AI alignment, transparency and security. Fellows collaborate with world-class mentors, receive dedicated research management support, and join a vibrant community in Berkeley focused on advancing safe and reliable AI. The program provides the structure, resources, and mentorship needed to produce impactful research and launch long-term careers in AI safety. Who are the MATS Mentors? MATS mentors are leading researchers from a broad range of AI safety, alignment, governance, field-building and security domains. They include academics, industry researchers, and independent experts who guide scholars through research projects, provide feedback, and help shape each scholar’s growth as a researcher. The mentors represent expertise in areas such as: Agent foundations and decision theory Control & monitoring of AI systems Mechanistic and concept-level interpretability Capability evaluations and benchmarking Cybersecurity, adversarial robustness, and safeguards Forecasting, game theory, and national/international governance Threat modeling, compliance verification, and compute proliferation Model organisms, red-teaming, and deceptive alignment Hardware interventions and information security View past and current mentors What are the key dates of the MATS Program? Key dates Application: General application period (May 12th to June 7th) Additional evaluation (June 7th through late July) Final offers (late July/early August) The main program will then run from September 28th to December 4th, with the extension phase for accepted fellows beginning in December. ‍ Who is eligible to apply? MATS accepts applicants from diverse academic and professional backgrounds - from machine learning, mathematics, and computer science to policy, economics, physics, cognitive science, biology, and public health, as well as founders, operators, and field-builders without traditional research backgrounds. The primary requirements are strong motivation to contribute to AI safety and evidence of technical aptitude, research potential, or relevant operational experience. Prior AI safety experience is helpful but not required. How does the application and mentor selection process work? Applicants submit a general application, applying to various tracks (Empirical, Theory, Strategy & Forecasting, Policy & Governance, Systems Security, Biosecurity, Founding & Field-Building. In stage 2, applicants apply to streams within those tracks as well as completing track specific evaluations. After a centralized review period, applicants who are advanced will then undergo additional evaluations depending on the preferences of the streams they've applied to before doing final interviews and receiving offers. For more information on how to get into MATS, please look at this page. The MATS Program seeks individuals who are deeply motivated by AI alignment, transparency, and security, and who are equipped with the skills and mindset to contribute to cutting-edge research. Sign-up below to get updates from our newsletter. Thank you! Your submission has been received. Something went wrong, please try again. Organization Research About Us Careers Transparency FAQ People MATS Mentors MATS Alumni MATS Team MATS Program MATS Residency Program Application Getting into MATS No items found. Get involved Donate Contact us Cookies Notice: This website uses cookies to identify pages that are being used most frequently. This helps us analyze data about web page traffic and improve our website. We do not and will never sell user data. Read more about our cookie policy on our privacy policy . Please contact us if you have any questions. © 2026 MATS Research. All rights reserved. ‍ Site by Osborn Design Works 