[ld:articleBody] A little over a year ago, the federal government acquired a stake in Anthropic without paying a penny. The shares were seized from associates of the crypto fraudster Sam Bankman-Fried. From there, they disappeared into a legal black hole. As Anthropic rockets toward what could be the biggest IPO in history, those shares could now be worth billions of dollars. Bankman-Fried's own Anthropic stake was liquidated in the bankruptcy of his failed cryptocurrency exchange. The Anthropic equity owned by Caroline Ellison and Nishad Singh, two associates who invested alongside him, took a different path. The government seized those shares and sold them to existing Anthropic shareholders, according to a person familiar with the sale. It's still unclear whether the proceeds will be paid out to victims of the $11 billion fraud case, or if the feds will just keep the money. It also remains a mystery which investors bought Singh's and Ellison's stock and how much they paid, but Anthropic shares have been on such a dizzying climb that it's likely those investors made a killing on them. Bankman-Fried was convicted in 2023 on fraud and money laundering charges and sentenced to 25 years in prison after the collapse of his cryptocurrency empire. Prosecutors said he used his crypto hedge fund, Alameda Research, to siphon billions of dollars from customers of FTX, his crypto exchange. The story of the crypto criminals' Anthropic shares is a tale with extraordinary elements, including one of the biggest financial frauds in modern history, a messy bankruptcy docket, and a company that experienced one of the fastest appreciations in business history as the world suddenly realized AI's existential importance. Bankman-Fried, Singh, and Ellison each invested in Anthropic's 2022 Series B funding round. Bankman-Fried bought $500 million worth, which according to court records represented 13.56% of Anthropic at the time. Singh acquired $40 million in shares, and Ellison acquired $10 million in shares, court records reviewed by Business Insider show. The artificial intelligence company's valuation has soared over the past four years. On the secondary market, Anthropic has been valued at $1.5 trillion. It is the most valuable private company in the world, according to Crunchbase. The Anthropic shares purchased by Singh and Ellison could together be worth between $4.17 billion and $5.03 billion today, based on the $965 billion valuation the company announced this May, according to Olav Sorenson, who teaches venture capital strategy at UCLA. ​​Harrison Rolfes, an analyst at PitchBook, put the combined figure at $2.62 billion. If Anthropic went public at a $2 trillion valuation, the shares would be worth about $5.44 billion, Rolfes said. Four of Bankman-Fried's close friends and executives at his companies pleaded guilty as co-conspirators. Three of them, including Singh and Ellison, testified against him. Ellison was the CEO of Alameda Research, which traded and invested funds that belonged to FTX depositors. She was also Bankman-Fried's on-and-off romantic partner. Singh, an FTX executive and early employee, misrepresented the exchange's revenue to investors. After the collapse of FTX, Bankman-Fried's Anthropic shares — which were owned by Clifton Bay, an entity affiliated with Alameda Research — ended up in bankruptcy court along with the other dredged-up remains of his companies. His Anthropic shares were liquidated to pay FTX's creditors. The estate in 2024 sold Bankman-Fried's Anthropic shares to a few dozen buyers for a total of $1.3 billion, more than double what he paid. The largest stake went to an entity affiliated with the United Arab Emirates sovereign wealth fund, bankruptcy court filings show. As part of their sentences, a judge required Singh and Ellison to forfeit their Anthropic shares, which prosecutors said could be considered proceeds of their crimes. At Singh's sentencing hearing, one of his attorneys, Andrew Goldstein, said Singh purchased his shares before participating in the criminal conspiracy and "he actually may have had a legitimate legal claim" to the shares but agreed to give them up as part of his plea agreement "because it was the right thing to do." Reached for comment for this story, Goldstein told Business Insider that Singh hopes the government is able to quickly distribute proceeds of the sale to FTX victims. An attorney for Ellison declined to comment. A federal judge ordered Ellison's and Singh's Anthropic shares to be transferred to the federal government, which took ownership of Ellison's shares in February 2025 and Singh's in April of that year, according to previously unreported court records. Ordinarily, victims of crimes are compensated through a restitution process, which is overseen by courts. But the number of potential FTX victims could be in the millions, prosecutors said in court filings. As a result, the judge ruled, victim compensation would be handled through a process called remission, which is overseen by the Justice Department. During Ellison's sentencing hearing, Justice Department prosecutors told the judge that the DOJ would either set up its own claims administration process to compensate victims, or work with the FTX bankruptcy process to identify victims and provide forfeited funds to them. At the time, FTX's bankruptcy process was in full swing. A Delaware court appointed Sullivan & Cromwell, the elite Wall Street law firm, to untangle the company's assets, figure out who was owed money, and pay them. The creditors in the FTX bankruptcy, prosecutors noted, largely overlapped with FTX's victims. They were generally depositors, lenders, and investors who were defrauded by Bankman-Fried and other executives. Prosecutors said the Justice Department could work with the bankruptcy estate's lawyers to get money back to them, as it had in previous large-scale financial frauds such as Bernie Madoff's Ponzi scheme. There was an unusual twist that set the FTX bankruptcy apart. Bankman-Fried's investments — especially the Anthropic shares, along with some cryptocurrency — had grown substantially in value since FTX's collapse. Earlier in 2024, the Sullivan & Cromwell lawyers who'd taken over FTX projected that all the creditors would be repaid in full, with interest. While prosecutors said they intended to use Singh's and Ellison's Anthropic shares for remission, the Justice Department could technically do whatever it wanted with them, according to Duncan Levin, a white-collar defense attorney who teaches a course on forfeiture at Harvard Law School. "It's a very opaque process," he said. "It's completely at the discretion, by law, of the attorney general of the United States." Typically, when the feds seize shares of private companies through criminal asset forfeiture, they send the shares to the US Marshals Service Complex Assets Unit for liquidation. The unit tries to value the shares as any other investor would, said Michael Bachner, a white-collar criminal and securities litigation attorney. "They may look to: What would an institutional purchaser pay for these securities?" Bachner said. "Are there funds that are valuing the securities? Is there a secondary market already out there?" For the sale of the Anthropic shares, timing was crucial. The Marshals Service is supposed to preserve as much value as possible, Bachner said. By the time the feds got hold of the shares, Anthropic had become an economy-shifting AI giant. In its March 2025 Series E fundraising round, Anthropic was worth $61.5 billion. By its Series G round at the start of 2026, it was worth $380 billion. At the same time, each fundraising round diluted the Series B shares. The FTX estate told the bankruptcy court that Bankman-Fried's shares, which in 2022 represented 13.56% of Anthropic, represented 7.84% of the AI company in January 2024. The Marshals Service sold Singh's and Ellison's shares to existing Anthropic investors sometime last year, according to the person with knowledge of the sale. It's not clear when exactly the agency sold the shares, to which investors, how those investors were chosen, at what price the shares were sold, or how much money the government made in the sale. Depending on when they were sold in 2025, the combined shares could have been worth between $300 million and $1.1 billion, according to Sorenson, the UCLA professor. Rolfes, the PitchBook analyst, estimated a range between $250 million and $630 million, depending on the timing. The Marshals Service declined to comment. A representative for the Justice Department said information about asset sales and victim compensation is confidential. The revenue from the sale of Singh's and Ellison's Anthropic shares doesn't appear to have been transferred to the FTX estate as of the end of June this year, according to bankruptcy court filings from the estate, which continues to compensate victims and creditors. The FTX estate received $638 million last year from assets seized by the Justice Department, according to the estate's annual report for 2025. Other filings show that nearly all of that amount came from the sale of Robinhood shares previously owned by Bankman-Fried. The estate expects to receive about $400 million more from the government at some point in the future, according to the annual report. That would include proceeds from cryptocurrency and other investments made by Bankman-Fried. One of Bankman-Fried's victims, Sunil Kavuri, told Business Insider that the Justice Department should use the proceeds of Ellison's and Singh's Anthropic shares to compensate victims. It would be "diabolical" for the government to hold onto the proceeds, he said. Victims haven't actually been made whole, he said, because the bankruptcy court calculated the losses of FTX depositors using the time of FTX's bankruptcy declaration, when crypto prices were at a low ebb. Kavuri previously argued in bankruptcy court that the FTX estate should have held on to its Anthropic shares for longer to take advantage of the company's swift growth. Representatives for the FTX estate declined to comment. The Justice Department spokesperson said the matter was ongoing, and that the DOJ "prioritizes victim compensation from forfeiture and takes all steps to ensure forfeited funds are provided to victims." The government could end up just keeping the money, Bachner said. "They've invested millions and millions and millions of dollars in prosecuting Bankman-Fried. And they want to get at least reimbursed for their costs, so sometimes they'll do that," he said. "It's really a unilateral government decision." Jack Newsham and Katie Roof contributed reporting for this story. Correction: August 31, 2026 — An earlier version of this story misstated the number of co-conspirators who testified against Sam Bankman-Fried. It was three. Update: August 31, 2026 — This story has been updated to reflect Singh's role in the FTX fraud case.
[ld:description] Sam Bankman-Fried's Anthropic stake was liquidated in bankruptcy court two years ago. His friends' shares went down a different path.
[ld:headline] The curious case of Sam Bankman-Fried's friends' Anthropic shares
[ld:datePublished] 2026-08-31T16:40:25.695Z
[ld:dateModified] 2026-09-02T22:13:06.569Z
=====BODY=====
 
 The Curious Case of Sam Bankman-Fried's Friends' Anthropic Shares - Business Insider 
 Business Insider 
 Subscribe
 Account icon 
 Account icon 
 Inside Business
 You're currently following this topic!
 Want to unfollow? Unsubscribe via the link in your email.
 The inner workings of companies shaping our world today.
 More stories 
 The inner workings of companies shaping our world today.
 What happens when you tell Jensen Huang you're quitting Nvidia 
 Blackstone swipes left on Bumble after doubling its investment 
 Sergey Brin is cooking up Google's AI comeback in a California microkitchen 
 Good Good's CEO and president are out after ad debacle: Read the memo 
 Search 
 Business 
 Strategy 
 Economy 
 Finance 
 Retail 
 Advertising 
 Careers 
 Law 
 Media 
 Real Estate 
 Small Business 
 The Better Work Project 
 Personal Finance 
 Tech 
 Science 
 AI 
 Enterprise 
 Transportation 
 Startups 
 Innovation 
 Markets 
 News 
 Stocks 
 Indices 
 Commodities 
 Crypto 
 Currencies 
 ETFs 
 Lifestyle 
 Entertainment 
 Culture 
 Travel 
 Food 
 Health 
 Education 
 Parenting 
 Military & Defense 
 Politics 
 Reviews 
 Home 
 Kitchen 
 Style 
 Streaming 
 Pets 
 Tech 
 Deals 
 Gifts 
 Tickets 
 Video 
 Big Business 
 So Expensive 
 View From Above 
 Small Business 
 Authorized Account 
 Risky Business 
 Boot Camp 
 Still Standing 
 How Crime Works 
 Life Lessons 
 Games 
 Boxed 
 Pipeline 
 Knighthop 
 Tally 
 Live Events 
 Tech Insider: Growth Mode 
 The Long Play 
 Stream Business Insider 
 Level Up 
 Community 
 Job Scout 
 Subscribe
 My account 
 Log in 
 Newsletters
 Saved Articles
 US edition 
 Deutschland & Österreich 
 España 
 Japan 
 Polska 
 TW 全球中文版 
 Get the app 
 Exclusive
 The feds seized a stake in Anthropic from Sam Bankman-Fried's friends. What happened to the shares?
 By 
 Jacob Shamsian 
 You're currently following this author!
 Want to unfollow? Unsubscribe via the link in your email.
 Follow
 Two associates of Sam Bankman-Fried invested in Anthropic. After they were sentenced for fraud, their shares entered a legal black hole. 
 ANGELA WEIS/Getty Images; Tyler Le/BI 
 2026-08-31T16:40:25.695Z
 Read in app
 Copy link 
 Email 
 Facebook 
 WhatsApp 
 X 
 LinkedIn 
 Bluesky 
 Threads 
 lighning bolt icon 
 An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt. 
 Impact Link 
 Save 
 Saved 
 Listen to this story 
 This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
 subscribers. Become an Insider 
 and start reading now. 
 Have an account? Log in . 
 A little over a year ago, the federal government acquired a stake in Anthropic without paying a penny.
 The shares were seized from associates of the crypto fraudster Sam Bankman-Fried . From there, they disappeared into a legal black hole.
 As Anthropic rockets toward what could be the biggest IPO in history , those shares could now be worth billions of dollars.
 Bankman-Fried's own Anthropic stake was liquidated in the bankruptcy of his failed cryptocurrency exchange. The Anthropic equity owned by Caroline Ellison and Nishad Singh, two associates who invested alongside him, took a different path. The government seized those shares and sold them to existing Anthropic shareholders, according to a person familiar with the sale.
 It's still unclear whether the proceeds will be paid out to victims of the $11 billion fraud case, or if the feds will just keep the money.
 It also remains a mystery which investors bought Singh's and Ellison's stock and how much they paid, but Anthropic shares have been on such a dizzying climb that it's likely those investors made a killing on them.
 Bankman-Fried was convicted in 2023 on fraud and money laundering charges and sentenced to 25 years in prison after the collapse of his cryptocurrency empire. Prosecutors said he used his crypto hedge fund, Alameda Research, to siphon billions of dollars from customers of FTX, his crypto exchange.
 The story of the crypto criminals' Anthropic shares is a tale with extraordinary elements, including one of the biggest financial frauds in modern history, a messy bankruptcy docket, and a company that experienced one of the fastest appreciations in business history as the world suddenly realized AI's existential importance.
 An intelligent investment
 Bankman-Fried, Singh, and Ellison each invested in Anthropic's 2022 Series B funding round. Bankman-Fried bought $500 million worth, which according to court records represented 13.56% of Anthropic at the time. Singh acquired $40 million in shares, and Ellison acquired $10 million in shares, court records reviewed by Business Insider show.
 Explore BI Games
 Take a smarter break in your day - and see how far you get.
 Play now 
 Want more Business Insider in your news feed?
 Add BI in Google so our reporting is easier to find when you’re searching for what matters.
 Add to Preferred Sources 
 The artificial intelligence company's valuation has soared over the past four years. On the secondary market, Anthropic has been valued at $1.5 trillion . It is the most valuable private company in the world, according to Crunchbase .
 The Anthropic shares purchased by Singh and Ellison could together be worth between $4.17 billion and $5.03 billion today, based on the $965 billion valuation the company announced this May, according to Olav Sorenson, who teaches venture capital strategy at UCLA. ​​Harrison Rolfes, an analyst at PitchBook, put the combined figure at $2.62 billion. If Anthropic went public at a $2 trillion valuation, the shares would be worth about $5.44 billion, Rolfes said.
 Among Sam Bankman-Fried's many investments was a sizable stake in Anthropic, the AI company that has since soared in value. 
 Bloomberg/Getty Images
 Four of Bankman-Fried's close friends and executives at his companies pleaded guilty as co-conspirators. Three of them, including Singh and Ellison , testified against him.
 Ellison was the CEO of Alameda Research , which traded and invested funds that belonged to FTX depositors. She was also Bankman-Fried's on-and-off romantic partner . Singh, an FTX executive and early employee, misrepresented the exchange's revenue to investors.
 After the collapse of FTX, Bankman-Fried's Anthropic shares — which were owned by Clifton Bay, an entity affiliated with Alameda Research — ended up in bankruptcy court along with the other dredged-up remains of his companies. His Anthropic shares were liquidated to pay FTX's creditors.
 The estate in 2024 sold Bankman-Fried's Anthropic shares to a few dozen buyers for a total of $1.3 billion, more than double what he paid. The largest stake went to an entity affiliated with the United Arab Emirates sovereign wealth fund, bankruptcy court filings show.
 The feds take a stake in Anthropic
 As part of their sentences, a judge required Singh and Ellison to forfeit their Anthropic shares, which prosecutors said could be considered proceeds of their crimes.
 At Singh's sentencing hearing, one of his attorneys, Andrew Goldstein, said Singh purchased his shares before participating in the criminal conspiracy and "he actually may have had a legitimate legal claim" to the shares but agreed to give them up as part of his plea agreement "because it was the right thing to do."
 Reached for comment for this story, Goldstein told Business Insider that Singh hopes the government is able to quickly distribute proceeds of the sale to FTX victims. An attorney for Ellison declined to comment.
 Nishad Singh was required to give up his shares of Anthropic as part of his sentence. 
 Bloomberg/Getty Images
 A federal judge ordered Ellison's and Singh's Anthropic shares to be transferred to the federal government, which took ownership of Ellison's shares in February 2025 and Singh's in April of that year, according to previously unreported court records.
 Ordinarily, victims of crimes are compensated through a restitution process, which is overseen by courts. But the number of potential FTX victims could be in the millions, prosecutors said in court filings. As a result, the judge ruled, victim compensation would be handled through a process called remission, which is overseen by the Justice Department.
 During Ellison's sentencing hearing, Justice Department prosecutors told the judge that the DOJ would either set up its own claims administration process to compensate victims, or work with the FTX bankruptcy process to identify victims and provide forfeited funds to them.
 At the time, FTX's bankruptcy process was in full swing. A Delaware court appointed Sullivan & Cromwell , the elite Wall Street law firm, to untangle the company's assets, figure out who was owed money, and pay them.
 The creditors in the FTX bankruptcy, prosecutors noted, largely overlapped with FTX's victims. They were generally depositors, lenders, and investors who were defrauded by Bankman-Fried and other executives. Prosecutors said the Justice Department could work with the bankruptcy estate's lawyers to get money back to them, as it had in previous large-scale financial frauds such as Bernie Madoff's Ponzi scheme.
 There was an unusual twist that set the FTX bankruptcy apart. Bankman-Fried's investments — especially the Anthropic shares, along with some cryptocurrency — had grown substantially in value since FTX's collapse. Earlier in 2024, the Sullivan & Cromwell lawyers who'd taken over FTX projected that all the creditors would be repaid in full , with interest.
 The Marshals take control
 While prosecutors said they intended to use Singh's and Ellison's Anthropic shares for remission, the Justice Department could technically do whatever it wanted with them, according to Duncan Levin, a white-collar defense attorney who teaches a course on forfeiture at Harvard Law School.
 "It's a very opaque process," he said. "It's completely at the discretion, by law, of the attorney general of the United States."
 Typically, when the feds seize shares of private companies through criminal asset forfeiture, they send the shares to the US Marshals Service Complex Assets Unit for liquidation. The unit tries to value the shares as any other investor would, said Michael Bachner, a white-collar criminal and securities litigation attorney.
 "They may look to: What would an institutional purchaser pay for these securities?" Bachner said. "Are there funds that are valuing the securities? Is there a secondary market already out there?"
 For the sale of the Anthropic shares, timing was crucial. The Marshals Service is supposed to preserve as much value as possible, Bachner said. By the time the feds got hold of the shares, Anthropic had become an economy-shifting AI giant. In its March 2025 Series E fundraising round, Anthropic was worth $61.5 billion. By its Series G round at the start of 2026, it was worth $380 billion.
 At the same time, each fundraising round diluted the Series B shares. The FTX estate told the bankruptcy court that Bankman-Fried's shares, which in 2022 represented 13.56% of Anthropic, represented 7.84% of the AI company in January 2024.
 Sunil Kavuri, a victim of Sam Bankman-Fried who has advocated for FTX creditors, said it would be "diabolical" for the government to hold onto the proceeds. 
 David Dee Delgado/Getty Images
 The Marshals Service sold Singh's and Ellison's shares to existing Anthropic investors sometime last year, according to the person with knowledge of the sale.
 It's not clear when exactly the agency sold the shares, to which investors, how those investors were chosen, at what price the shares were sold, or how much money the government made in the sale. Depending on when they were sold in 2025, the combined shares could have been worth between $300 million and $1.1 billion, according to Sorenson, the UCLA professor. Rolfes, the PitchBook analyst, estimated a range between $250 million and $630 million, depending on the timing.
 The Marshals Service declined to comment. A representative for the Justice Department said information about asset sales and victim compensation is confidential.
 The revenue from the sale of Singh's and Ellison's Anthropic shares doesn't appear to have been transferred to the FTX estate as of the end of June this year, according to bankruptcy court filings from the estate, which continues to compensate victims and creditors.
 The FTX estate received $638 million last year from assets seized by the Justice Department, according to the estate's annual report for 2025. Other filings show that nearly all of that amount came from the sale of Robinhood shares previously owned by Bankman-Fried. The estate expects to receive about $400 million more from the government at some point in the future, according to the annual report. That would include proceeds from cryptocurrency and other investments made by Bankman-Fried.
 One of Bankman-Fried's victims, Sunil Kavuri, told Business Insider that the Justice Department should use the proceeds of Ellison's and Singh's Anthropic shares to compensate victims. It would be "diabolical" for the government to hold onto the proceeds, he said.
 Victims haven't actually been made whole, he said, because the bankruptcy court calculated the losses of FTX depositors using the time of FTX's bankruptcy declaration, when crypto prices were at a low ebb. Kavuri previously argued in bankruptcy court that the FTX estate should have held on to its Anthropic shares for longer to take advantage of the company's swift growth.
 Representatives for the FTX estate declined to comment. The Justice Department spokesperson said the matter was ongoing, and that the DOJ "prioritizes victim compensation from forfeiture and takes all steps to ensure forfeited funds are provided to victims."
 The government could end up just keeping the money, Bachner said.
 "They've invested millions and millions and millions of dollars in prosecuting Bankman-Fried. And they want to get at least reimbursed for their costs, so sometimes they'll do that," he said. "It's really a unilateral government decision."
 Jack Newsham and Katie Roof contributed reporting for this story. 
 Correction: August 31, 2026 — An earlier version of this story misstated the number of co-conspirators who testified against Sam Bankman-Fried. It was three. 
 Update: August 31, 2026 — This story has been updated to reflect Singh's role in the FTX fraud case. 
 Recommended video
 Trending conversations
 Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know 
 comments 
 comment_author 
 Loading comment 
 0 replies 
 Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know 
 comments 
 comment_author 
 Loading comment 
 0 replies 
 Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know 
 comments 
 comment_author 
 Loading comment 
 0 replies 
 Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know 
 comments 
 comment_author 
 Loading comment 
 0 replies 
 No comments right now, check back later.
 Comments are unavailable right now.
 Read comments 
 Start the conversation 
 Read next
 Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know 
 Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know 
 Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know 
 Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know 
 Jacob Shamsian 
 You're currently following this author!
 Want to unfollow? Unsubscribe via the link in your email.
 Follow
 Jacob Shamsian is a correspondent on Business Insider's Enterprise news desk. He is also a Global Reporter for Axel Springer. He was previously on BI's Legal Affairs desk, covering major litigation, courtroom trials, and the legal industry. Jacob has reported on the criminal trials of Donald Trump ,  Ghislaine Maxwell , Sam Bankman-Fried , Sean "Diddy" Combs ,  R. Kelly , and Anna Sorokin (AKA Anna Delvey) , He's also covered blockbuster civil trials, including both  E. Jean Carroll v. Trump  trials, the New York Attorney General's fraud trial against Trump ,  Sarah Palin v. The New York Times , and Johnny Depp v. Amber Heard . His stories have been cited in judicial rulings, lawsuits, letters from congressional committees, and in numerous media publications. He was a pool reporter in Donald Trump's Manhattan criminal trial. Jacob has been interviewed on CNN, the docuseries "Surviving R. Kelly," ABC's "Good Morning America," and BBC News, among other programs. His work has been cited by media outlets, including The New York Times, Bloomberg News, The Washington Post, Vanity Fair, and New York magazine. He's also written for GQ, The Awl, The New Republic, Entertainment Weekly, Time, and Modern Farmer. You can reach Jacob on Signal at JacobShamsian.07 . 
 Sam Bankman-Fried 
 Anthropic 
 Exclusive 
 More 
 Bankruptcy 
 HOME 
 Subscribe
 This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
 subscribers. Become an Insider 
 and start reading now. 
 Have an account? Log in . 
 Legal & Privacy
 Terms of Service 
 Terms of Sale 
 Privacy Policy 
 Accessibility 
 Code of Ethics Policy 
 Reprints & Permissions 
 Disclaimer 
 Advertising Policies 
 Conflict of Interest Policy 
 Commerce Policy 
 Coupons Privacy Policy 
 Coupons Terms 
 Your Privacy Choices 
 Company
 About Us 
 Careers 
 Advertise With Us 
 Contact Us 
 News Tips 
 Company News 
 Awards 
 Masthead 
 Other
 Games 
 Sitemap 
 Stock quotes by finanzen.net 
 Corrections 
 Community Guidelines 
 AI Use 
 BI Live 
 Business Insider App 
 International Editions
 AT 
 DE 
 ES 
 JP 
 PL 
 TW 
 Copyright © 2026 
 Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
 Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our 
 Terms of Service 
 and 
 Privacy Policy . 
 Jump to
 Main content 
 Search 
 Account 
 Jump to top of page 
 Something went wrong, please try again. 
 Community Hub 
 
