[ld:description] Schmidt's bets are on some of the largest AI startups, including Anthropic and SandboxAQ. 
[ld:headline] Eric Schmidt's family office invests in 22 AI startups 
[ld:datePublished] 2025-01-21T14:30:01+0000
[ld:dateModified] 2025-01-22T21:44:58+0000
=====BODY=====
 Eric Schmidt's family office invests AI startups 
 Skip Navigation 
 Markets Pre-Markets 
 U.S. Markets 
 Currencies 
 Prediction Markets 
 Cryptocurrency 
 Futures & Commodities 
 Bonds 
 Funds & ETFs 
 Business Economy 
 Finance 
 Health & Science 
 Media 
 Real Estate 
 Energy 
 Climate 
 Transportation 
 Investigations 
 Industrials 
 Retail 
 Wealth 
 Sports 
 Life 
 Small Business 
 Investing Personal Finance 
 Fintech 
 Financial Advisors 
 Options Action 
 ETF Street 
 Buffett Archive 
 Earnings 
 Trader Talk 
 Tech Cybersecurity 
 AI 
 Enterprise 
 Internet 
 Media 
 Mobile 
 Social Media 
 CNBC Disruptor 50 
 Tech Guide 
 Politics & Policy White House 
 Policy 
 Defense 
 Congress 
 Expanding Opportunity 
 Video Latest Video 
 Full Episodes 
 Livestream 
 Live Audio 
 Live TV Schedule 
 CNBC Podcasts 
 CEO Interviews 
 CNBC Documentaries 
 Digital Originals 
 Watchlist 
 Investing Club Trust Portfolio 
 Analysis 
 Trade Alerts 
 Meeting Videos 
 Homestretch 
 Jim's Columns 
 Education 
 Subscribe 
 PRO Pro News 
 Josh Brown 
 Mike Santoli 
 Calls of the Day 
 My Portfolio 
 Livestream 
 Full Episodes 
 Stock Screener 
 Market Forecast 
 Options Investing 
 Chart Investing 
 Subscribe 
 Livestream 
 Menu 
 Make It 
 select 
 USA 
 INTL 
 Livestream 
 Search quotes, news & videos 
 Livestream 
 Watchlist 
 SIGN IN 
 Create free account 
 Markets 
 Business 
 Investing 
 Tech 
 Politics & Policy 
 Video 
 Watchlist 
 Investing Club 
 PRO 
 Livestream 
 Menu 
 Inside Alts 
 Family Offices 
 High-Net-Worth Investing 
 Advisory Board 
 Newsletter Sign-Up 
 Inside Wealth Eric Schmidt's family office invests in 22 AI startups 
 Published Tue, Jan 21 2025 9:30 AM EST Updated Wed, Jan 22 2025 4:44 PM EST 
 Robert Frank @robtfrank 
 WATCH LIVE 
 Key Points
 Eric Schmidt's family office, called Hillspire, has made investments in 22 private AI firms since 2019, according to data provided exclusively to CNBC by Fintrx.
 The funding rounds for the 22 companies that Schmidt has invested since 2019 total more than $5 billion, according to Fintrx.
 Schmidt's bets include some of the largest AI startups, including Anthropic and SandboxAQ.
 A version of this article first appeared in CNBC's Inside Wealth newsletter with Robert Frank, a weekly guide to the high-net-worth investor and consumer. Sign up to receive future editions, straight to your inbox. Eric Schmidt, the billionaire former CEO of Google , has become known as "the AI whisperer" for his widespread predictions and warnings about artificial intelligence. Behind the scenes, however, Schmidt's family office has been making dozens of bets on private AI startups. Schmidt's family office, called Hillspire, has made investments in 22 private AI firms since 2019, according to data provided exclusively to CNBC by Fintrx, a private wealth intelligence platform. Last year alone, Hillspire made 13 investments in AI startups, which accounted for more than three-quarters of all of Schmidt's startup investments. The dollar amounts of the investments aren't disclosed, so it's unclear how much Schmidt has invested in each company. And some of the investments were follow-on rounds for the same companies. Yet the funding rounds for the 22 companies that Schmidt has invested since 2019 total more than $5 billion, according to Fintrx. Schmidt's bets include some of the largest AI startups, including Anthropic, H (formerly known as Holistic AI) and SandboxAQ. They also include smaller companies, like Swiss startup Optiml as well as Altera and Inworld AI. Schmidt has become one of the leading evangelists of artificial intelligence, having written one of the defining books on the technology, "The Age of AI," with Henry Kissinger and Daniel Huttenlocher. He is also a leading voice on AI's potential perils. Schmidt said in an interview late last year with ABC News that when a computer can learn and do everything, "that's a dangerous point. When the system can self-improve, we need to seriously think about unplugging it." Forbes reported this month that Hillspire is also funding an AI startup focused on video and social media, called Hooglee. The website for Hooglee said it's "on a mission to change the way people connect through the power of AI and video." While Schmidt has been a longtime tech leader, he's not alone among family offices in taking an interest in AI. A UBS survey showed that artificial intelligence is now the top investment theme for family offices. More than three-quarters, or 78%, of family offices surveyed plan to invest in AI in the next two to three years — the most for any category, according to the UBS Global Family Office Report. Here's the list of Hillspire's AI startup investments: Clarification: This article has been updated to clarify that Eric Schmidt's family office made an investment in a company now known as H, formerly known as Holistic AI. 
 More In Inside Wealth 
 Wealthy investors are pouring billions into this new tax strategy despite risks 
 Robert Frank 
 Wealthy investors seek oil and gas assets, but bargains are scarce 
 Hayley Cuccinello 
 Labor Day marks the start of 'fallcations' as wealthy travelers avoid summer crowds 
 Robert Frank 
 Read More 
 Subscribe to CNBC PRO 
 Subscribe to Investing Club 
 Licensing & Reprints 
 CNBC Councils 
 Select Personal Finance 
 Join the CNBC Panel 
 Closed Captioning 
 Digital Products 
 News Releases 
 Internships 
 Corrections 
 About CNBC 
 Site Map 
 Podcasts 
 Careers 
 Help 
 Contact 
 News Tips
 Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you.
 Get In Touch 
 CNBC Newsletters
 Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox
 Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services.
 Advertise With Us
 Please Contact Us 
 Ad Choices 
 Privacy Policy 
 Your Privacy Choices 
 CA Notice 
 Terms of Service 
 © 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company.
 Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
 Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
 and Analysis.
 Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by 
 
