
=====BODY=====
 Investing in founders defining the future | Metaplanet | Metaplanet About us Portfolio News FAQ 
 Footprints to the distant future 
 Investing in tech that supports humanity's long-term survival
 missionaries over mercenaries
 Metaplanet is an evergreen investment firm that backs missionaries who build safe technologies for humanity
 Portfolio Spotlights
 Anthropic
 AI research and products that put safety at the frontier
 ŌURA
 Translating your body's most meaningful messages — sleep, activity, stress, and heart health — to transform how you feel every day
 Protocol Labs
 An innovation network driving breakthroughs in computing, to push humanity forward
 Zama
 Open source cryptographic tools that make protecting privacy easy with Homomorphic Encryption
 AI & Robotics
 Creators of thinking machines and diligent droids. AI and robotics ventures don’t just predict the future. They sculpt it. Merging code with cause, producing purposeful intelligent design.
 See more 
 Life Sciences
 Because biology is not destiny. Seeking breakthroughs that beat Mother Nature at her own game, transforming biological inevitability into a canvas of opportunity.
 See more 
 Enterprise
 Here, business is a vehicle for impact. Tech that enhances productivity, efficiency, and sustainability — changing mindsets as well as market shares.
 See more 
 Consumer
 Technology meets humanity. Experiences and products that resonate with people and transform the ordinary into something special.
 See more 
 Crypto
 Redefining value exchange and driving the evolution of finance, security, and digital trust. Seeking to safeguard humanity's digital future.
 See more 
 View our full portfolio 
 what sets us apart
 Timescale. Philosophy. Autonomy. Home to your tribe. 
 The long game
 Your work should result in new, useful, lasting, and safe products and services that no money can buy today. No rush. We’re here to help humanity flourish in the long term.
 Metaplanet is truly a deep-tech, mission-driven investor thinking and operating at a civilizational scale like no other. A true partner of Vortexa since our inception to later stages — and all the ups and downs in between. If you have the privilege of working with them, don't think twice for a nanosecond.
 Fabio Kuhn, Vortexa 
 Missionaries over mercenaries
 Mercenaries hustle for riches. We invest in deep tech that will enable a positive impact on a societal and civilizational scale. Meaningful legacies are built on grit and determination. The missionary kind.
 Metaplanet has been a fantastic investor: they grasped the vision of what we're building immediately and have brought incredibly useful perspectives and resources to us with a light touch.
 Ian Quigley, Leash Bio 
 Allied with founders
 A structural power imbalance favors investors. So it may surprise you that when it comes to big decisions, we have founders’ interests at heart. (Exceptions occur, but rarely.)
 Metaplanet really gets what it is to be founder friendly at its core. We have a lot of wonderful/top-tier investors, but they truly stand out by being in our corner and benevolently helping in any way they can. I would 100% recommend them to anyone that has the chance to work with them - even above a lot of names that might be more well-known.
 Matt Krisiloff, Conception Bio 
 Hands-off yet quick to ACT
 We’re here to back you, not to baby you. Visionary leaders know their path and how we can help. Beyond that, we stay away. But when you do need us, we’ll quickly jump on a call, or decide if we’ll join your funding round.
 Metaplanet are what we always wanted our investors to be. They have been thoughtful and knowledgeable about our space, hands-off but quick to act. They've committed both capital and time to our fundraises, and overall are just an exceptionally smart and kind team to work with.
 Aaron Morris, PostEra 
 Existential philanthropy
 We invest in tech that supports humanity’s long-term survival. Our success helps fund grants that counter important, neglected, and tractable risks to our collective existence, mainly from AI.
 Metaplanet has been a friendly, highly supportive investor for us. They get what we do and what it takes to be successful in deeptech, and have an incredible network. For example, they introduced us to another great investor who ended up leading our Series A. This, in turn, opened up major opportunities for our company.
 Rand Hindi, Zama 
 Single-source and evergreen
 Metaplanet has no external investors, ensuring full autonomy and long-term good over short-term returns. As an evergreen fund with no exit deadlines, we’re free to focus. So are you.
 As a fund, Metaplanet has been extremely founder-friendly and supportive of our unique vision at Fauna Bio. They go out of their way to reach out and help expand our network, connect us to other like-minded founders and build a community of companies all working at the cutting edge of technology and biology. This is the reason I frequently refer founders to them!
 Ashley Zehnder, Fauna Bio 
 Actions speak louder than lofty promises. 
 Ask any of our portfolio companies if we live up to these ideals.
 Our portfolio
 170+ companies representing multiple areas.
 4Degrees
 The relationship intelligence and deal flow platform designed by ex-investors
 United States
 2019
Visit website 
 Abalone Bio
 Realizing the full potential of antibody drugs for difficult disease targets
 United States
 2022
Visit website 
 Aerones
 The world leading robot-enabled wind turbine maintenance and inspections service provider
 Latvia
 2022
Visit website 
 Alba Orbital
 Democratizing access to space
 United States
 2021
Visit website 
 ALICE Technologies
 The world's first construction optioneering platform that helps GCs to easily create, explore, and update construction schedules that reduce risk while cutting construction costs and build time
 United States
 2022
Visit website 
 See all compatibility check
 You
 Mission-driven founders: challenging the status quo. 
 Academic mentality: evidence-based R&D. 
 Seeking your tribe: yearn the company of others who push human progress. 
 Grit: proven doer with a track record. 
 Inherent moat from technology or business model. 
 Multi-generational impact that benefits humanity. 
 Us
 Missionaries over mercenaries 
 No meddling: Ample room to operate 
 Continuous investment mentality: Not bound by single stage or ticket. 
 Across sectors around the world. 
 Evergreen fund & Single LP. No rush to commercialize R&D without resolving ethical concerns. 
 No army of suits. Small team of quick-thinking enablers. 
 notable exits
 50+ exits as of 2025
 Apprente
 Intelligent voice-based conversational agents for the enterprise.
 Acquired by: 
 Betterdoctor
 Practitioner groups, and other organizations keep their practitioner data accurate.
 Acquired by: 
 Deepmind
 Solving intelligence to advance science and benefit humanity.
 Acquired by: 
 Geometric Intelligence
 Agents that recognize objects and scenarios from much smaller data sets than usual.
 Acquired by: 
 Neurio
 Home intelligence technology that developed hardware and software for utilities.
 Acquired by: 
 Volumetric
 Advanced biomaterials and bioprinting company.
 Acquired by: 
 Metaplanet Holdings OÜ Toompuiestee 33a Tallinn 10149 Estonia
 
