 OpenAI closes $40 billion funding round, record for private tech deal Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Europe Markets China Markets Asia Markets World Markets Currencies Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity AI Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics White House Policy Defense Congress Equity and Opportunity Europe Politics China Politics Asia Politics World Politics Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Top Video Live Audio Europe TV Asia TV CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe Sign In PRO Pro News Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Stock Lists Subscribe Sign In Livestream Menu Make It select ALL SELECT Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Markets Business Investing Tech Politics Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu AI Age AI at Work AI Insights AI Effect OpenAI closes $40 billion funding round, largest private tech deal on record Published Mon, Mar 31 2025 6:00 PM EDT Hayden Field @haydenfield Kate Rooney @Kr00ney WATCH LIVE Key Points OpenAI on Monday announced it had closed its $40 billion funding round, the most ever raised by a private tech company. The deal values OpenAI at $300 billion, including the new capital. The round includes $30 billion from SoftBank and $10 billion from a syndicate of investors. In this article MSFT Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT Sam Altman, chief executive officer of OpenAI, during a fireside chat organized by Softbank Ventures Asia in Seoul, South Korea, on Friday, June 9, 2023. SeongJoon Cho | Bloomberg | Getty Images OpenAI on Monday announced it had closed what amounts to the largest private tech funding round on record. The $40 billion financing values the ChatGPT maker at $300 billion, including the fresh capital. It's nearly three times the amount previously raised by a private tech company, according to PitchBook. The valuation puts OpenAI behind only SpaceX at $350 billion and even with TikTok parent ByteDance among the world's most richly valued private companies, according to CB Insights . Japan's SoftBank is leading the round with $30 billion, and is joined by a syndicate of other backers, including core investor Microsoft as well as Coatue, Altimeter and Thrive. OpenAI said it plans use the fresh capital to "push the frontiers of AI research even further" and scale its compute infrastructure, according to a blog post. About $18 billion of the funding is expected to be used for OpenAI's commitment to Stargate , the person familiar with the matter told CNBC. The joint venture between SoftBank, OpenAI and Oracle was announced by President Donald Trump in January. The initial funding will be $10 billion, followed by the remaining $30 billion by the end of 2025, the person said. But the round comes with a caveat. It could be slashed by as much as $10 billion if the company doesn't restructure into a for-profit entity by Dec. 31, CNBC confirmed earlier on Monday. The provision ramps up pressure on OpenAI to pull off the for-profit conversion, a plan that will need the blessing of Microsoft and the California Attorney General, and has been challenged in court by Elon Musk , who was one of the co-founders of OpenAI in 2015, when it was started as a non-profit research lab. The company's current and unusual hybrid structure includes a capped-profit limited partnership created in 2019. The original nonprofit is the controlling shareholder and would be spun out as an independent entity if the company can restructure. OpenAI's venture backers have received convertible notes that would turn into equity. watch now VIDEO 2:34 02:34 OpenAI expects revenue to triple to $12.7 billion this year Power Lunch The largest private deal prior to OpenAI's round was Ant Group's $14 billion capital raise in 2018. After that was Juul Labs' $12.8 billion raise in 2018 and DiDi Global's $10.8 billion round the following year, according to PitchBook. Then comes Databricks' $10 billion round in December and OpenAI's own $10 billion round in 2023. SoftBank and other investors are betting that ChatGPT's explosive growth can continue. OpenAI said Monday that ChatGPT now has 500 million weekly users, up from 400 million last month. OpenAI also expects revenue will triple to $12.7 billion by the end of this year. CEO Sam Altman wrote Monday in a post on X that though the ChatGPT launch was "one of the craziest viral moments i'd ever seen, and we added one million users in five days," the company "added one million users in the last hour." The generative AI market is poised to top $1 trillion in revenue within a decade. Companies from Google and Amazon to Anthropic and Perplexity are racing to announce new products and features, especially as the race to build "AI agents" intensifies . OpenAI last week announced some key changes in the C-suite, with CEO Sam Altman shifting his focus away from day-to-day operations and focusing more on research and product. Operating chief Brad Lightcap's role will expand to oversee "business and day-to-day operations." OpenAI's fundraising comes just after CoreWeave became the first pure-play AI company to make its public debut, though it's been a tough start . After slashing its IPO price, the stock was unchanged in its first day on the market on Friday and fell more than 7% on Monday. Mark Klein, CEO of SuRo Capital and an investor in OpenAI, told investors on his firm's earnings call earlier this month that the next wave of anticipated IPOs in his portfolio included, "at some point in time," OpenAI. WATCH: OpenAI CFO with Cramer watch now VIDEO 7:34 07:34 Our North Star is always to be on the frontier of intelligence, says OpenAI CFO Sarah Friar Mad Money with Jim Cramer More In AI Effect Chef Robotics raises $20.6 million to continue building AI robot arms CJ Haddad 4 hours ago OpenAI funding round could be cut by $10 billion if for-profit conversion doesn't occur by year-end Hayden Field 5 hours ago Nvidia turned CoreWeave into a major player in AI years before helping to save its IPO Jordan Novet Read More Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Supply Chain Values CNBC on Peacock Join the CNBC Panel Digital Products News Releases Closed Captioning Corrections About CNBC Internships Site Map Ad Choices Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Privacy Policy CA Notice Terms of Service © 2025 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by 