 OpenAI raises at $157 billion valuation; Microsoft, Nvidia join round Skip Navigation Markets Pre-Markets U.S. Markets Currencies Cryptocurrency Futures & Commodities Bonds Funds & ETFs Business Economy Finance Health & Science Media Real Estate Energy Climate Transportation Industrials Retail Wealth Sports Life Small Business Investing Personal Finance Fintech Financial Advisors Options Action ETF Street Buffett Archive Earnings Trader Talk Tech Cybersecurity Enterprise Internet Media Mobile Social Media CNBC Disruptor 50 Tech Guide Politics White House Policy Defense Congress Equity and Opportunity Video Latest Video Full Episodes Livestream Live Audio Live TV Schedule CNBC Podcasts CEO Interviews CNBC Documentaries Digital Originals Watchlist Investing Club Trust Portfolio Analysis Trade Alerts Meeting Videos Homestretch Jim's Columns Education Subscribe Sign In PRO Pro News Livestream Full Episodes Stock Screener Market Forecast Options Investing Chart Investing Subscribe Sign In Livestream Menu Make It select ALL SELECT Credit Cards Loans Banking Mortgages Insurance Credit Monitoring Personal Finance Small Business Taxes Help for Low Credit Scores Investing SELECT All Credit Cards Find the Credit Card for You Best Credit Cards Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Travel Credit Cards Best 0% APR Credit Cards Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Cash Back Credit Cards Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses Best Credit Cards to Build Credit SELECT All Loans Find the Best Personal Loan for You Best Personal Loans Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt Best Loans with Fast Funding Best Small Personal Loans Best Large Personal Loans Best Personal Loans to Apply Online Best Student Loan Refinance SELECT All Banking Find the Savings Account for You Best High Yield Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Savings Accounts Best Big Bank Checking Accounts Best No Fee Checking Accounts No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts Best Checking Account Bonuses Best Money Market Accounts Best CDs Best Credit Unions SELECT All Mortgages Best Mortgages Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment Best Mortgages for No Down Payment Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score Adjustable Rate Mortgages Affording a Mortgage SELECT All Insurance Best Life Insurance Best Homeowners Insurance Best Renters Insurance Best Car Insurance Travel Insurance SELECT All Credit Monitoring Best Credit Monitoring Services Best Identity Theft Protection How to Boost Your Credit Score Credit Repair Services SELECT All Personal Finance Best Budgeting Apps Best Expense Tracker Apps Best Money Transfer Apps Best Resale Apps and Sites Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps Best Debt Relief SELECT All Small Business Best Small Business Savings Accounts Best Small Business Checking Accounts Best Credit Cards for Small Business Best Small Business Loans Best Tax Software for Small Business SELECT All Taxes Filing For Free Best Tax Software Best Tax Software for Small Businesses Tax Refunds Tax Brackets Tax Tips Tax By State Tax Payment Plans SELECT All Help for Low Credit Scores Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit Best Credit Cards for Building Credit Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower Best Mortgages for Bad Credit Best Hardship Loans How to Boost Your Credit Score SELECT All Investing Best IRA Accounts Best Roth IRA Accounts Best Investing Apps Best Free Stock Trading Platforms Best Robo-Advisors Index Funds Mutual Funds ETFs Bonds USA INTL Livestream Search quotes, news & videos Livestream Watchlist SIGN IN Markets Business Investing Tech Politics Video Watchlist Investing Club PRO Livestream Menu Tech OpenAI closes funding at $157 billion valuation, as Microsoft, Nvidia, SoftBank join round Published Wed, Oct 2 2024 1:00 PM EDT Hayden Field @haydenfield WATCH LIVE Key Points OpenAI closed its long-awaited funding round, announcing that it raised $6.6 billion at a $157 billion post-money valuation. Led by Thrive Capital, the round also had participation from Microsoft and Nvidia, CNBC confirmed. Earlier this year, OpenAI was valued at a reported $80 billion, up from $29 billion in 2023. OpenAI CEO Sam Altman speaks during the Microsoft Build conference at Microsoft headquarters in Redmond, Washington, on May 21, 2024. Jason Redmond | AFP | Getty Images OpenAI has closed its long-awaited funding round at a valuation of $157 billion, including the $6.6 billion the company raised from an extensive roster of investment firms and big tech companies. While OpenAI didn't name the investors in Wednesday's press release, a person with knowledge of the matter said the round was led by Thrive Capital and included participation from existing backer Microsoft as well as chipmaker Nvidia , SoftBank and others. Thrive planned to invest $1 billion in the round, CNBC previously reported. OpenAI's rapid ascent, which began with the launch of ChatGPT in late 2022, has been the biggest story in the tech industry over the last couple years, bringing the concept of generative artificial intelligence into the mainstream and paving the way for tens of billions of dollars of investments in AI infrastructure. "The new funding will allow us to double down on our leadership in frontier AI research, increase compute capacity, and continue building tools that help people solve hard problems," OpenAI wrote in a blog post Wednesday. OpenAI generated $300 million in revenue last month, up 1,700% since the beginning of last year, CNBC confirmed last week, following reporting by the New York Times. The company expects to bring in $11.6 billion in sales next year, up from $3.7 billion in 2024, according to a person close to OpenAI who asked not to be named because the financials are confidential. But all that revenue is extremely costly, as OpenAI has to ramp up purchases of Nvidia's graphics processing units (GPUs) to train and run its large language models. The company expects to lose about $5 billion this year, the person said. Microsoft has invested billions of dollars in OpenAI and is a key partner as the software giant bolsters its Azure cloud business. Earlier this year, OpenAI was valued at a reported $80 billion, up from $29 billion in 2023. Following the viral growth of ChatGPT, momentum has continued with new products for businesses and an expansion into AI-generated photos and videos. OpenAI now has 250 million weekly active users on ChatGPT, CFO Sarah Friar told CNBC in a statement. There are also 11 million ChatGPT Plus subscribers and 1 million paying business users on ChatGPT, a person close to the company said. "AI is already personalizing learning, accelerating healthcare breakthroughs, and driving productivity," Friar said in the statement. "And this is just the start." OpenAI is experiencing plenty of growing pains along the way, including the loss of key executives, a trend that continued through last week . Last Wednesday, OpenAI Chief Technology Officer Mira Murati, who briefly served as interim CEO, said she would be leaving after six and a half years. Shortly after that, research chief Bob McGrew and Barret Zoph, a research vice president, said they were leaving the company. In an interview the next day at Italian Tech Week, OpenAI CEO Sam Altman said, "I think this will be hopefully a great transition for everyone involved and I hope OpenAI will be stronger for it, as we are for all of our transitions." Also on Thursday, OpenAI held an all-hands meeting, following the board's decision to consider restructuring the company to a for-profit business , according to a separate person with knowledge of the matter. Altman said the departures were not related to the potential restructuring, contrary to some media reports. Should the change occur, the nonprofit segment would remain as a separate entity, the source said. At Thursday's meeting, Altman denied reports of plans for him to receive a "giant equity stake" in the company, calling that information "just not true," according to a person who was in attendance. OpenAI Chairman Bret Taylor told CNBC in a statement last week that while the board has talked about the matter, no specific figures are on the table. "The board has had discussions about whether it would be beneficial to the company and our mission to have Sam be compensated with equity, but no specific figures have been discussed nor have any decisions been made," Taylor said. The latest funding round also included participation from Khosla Ventures, Altimeter Capital, Fidelity, MGX and Tiger Global, sources told CNBC. WATCH: SoftBank to invest $500 million in OpenAI watch now VIDEO 0:52 00:52 SoftBank to invest $500 million in OpenAI Squawk Box Subscribe to CNBC PRO Subscribe to Investing Club Licensing & Reprints CNBC Councils Select Personal Finance CNBC on Peacock Join the CNBC Panel Supply Chain Values Select Shopping Closed Captioning Digital Products News Releases Internships Corrections About CNBC Ad Choices Site Map Podcasts Careers Help Contact News Tips Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you. Get In Touch CNBC Newsletters Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. Advertise With Us Please Contact Us Privacy Policy CA Notice Terms of Service © 2024 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis. Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by 