About METR
 Home
 Team
 Hiring
 Donate
 Blog
 METR
 -->
 Home
 Team
 Hiring
 Donate
 Blog
 Menu
 About Us
 (Replace) We’re dedicated to learning how to give as well as possible. Here’s what we’ve done so far.
 01
Partnerships
02
Our Work
 15 March 2024
 Autonomy Evaluation Resources
 A collection of resources for evaluating potentially dangerous autonomous capabilities of frontier models.
 29 February 2024
 Portable Evaluation Tasks via the METR Task Standard
 METR has published a standard way to define tasks for evaluating the capabilities of AI agents.
 07 February 2024
 2023 Year In Review
 A summary of what METR accomplished in 2023 – our first full year of operation.
 16 December 2023
 Bounty: Diverse hard tasks for LLM agents
 METR (formerly ARC Evals) is looking for (1) ideas, (2) detailed specifications, and (3) well-tested implementations for tasks to measure performance of autonomous LLM agents.
 04 December 2023
 ARC Evals is now METR
 ARC Evals is wrapping up our incubation period at ARC, and spinning off into our own standalone nonprofit.
 26 September 2023
 Responsible Scaling Policies (RSPs)
 We describe the basic components of Responsible Scaling Policies (RSPs) as well as why we find them promising for reducing catastrophic risks from AI.
 19 September 2023
 ARC Evals is spinning out from ARC
 ARC Evals plans to spin out from the Alignment Research Center (ARC) in the coming months, and become its own standalone organization.
 31 July 2023
 New report: Evaluating Language-Model Agents on Realistic Autonomous Tasks
 We have just released our first public report. It introduces methodology for assessing the capacity of LLM agents to acquire resources, create copies of themselves, and adapt to novel challenges they encounter in the wild.
 17 March 2023
 Update on ARC's recent eval efforts
 More information about ARC's evaluations of GPT-4 and Claude
 See more
03
What we do
Blurb about what we do
Elicitation Project
We believe that at some point, AIs will probably be able to do most of what humans can do, including developing new technologies; starting businesses and making money; finding new cybersecurity exploits and fixes; and more.
Tasks
We believe that at some point, AIs will probably be able to do most of what humans can do, including developing new technologies; starting businesses and making money; finding new cybersecurity exploits and fixes; and more.
Threat Modeling
We believe that at some point, AIs will probably be able to do most of what humans can do, including developing new technologies; starting businesses and making money; finding new cybersecurity exploits and fixes; and more.
Responsible Scaling Policies
We believe that at some point, AIs will probably be able to do most of what humans can do, including developing new technologies; starting businesses and making money; finding new cybersecurity exploits and fixes; and more.
04
AI’s transformative potential
We believe that at some point, AIs will probably be able to do most of what humans can do, including developing new technologies; starting businesses and making money; finding new cybersecurity exploits and fixes; and more.
We think it’s very plausible that AI systems could end up misaligned: pursuing goals that are at odds with a thriving civilization. This could be due to a deliberate effort to cause chaos[1], or (more likely) may happen in spite of efforts to make systems safe[2]. If we do end up with misaligned AI systems, the number, capabilities and speed of such AIs could cause enormous harm - plausibly a global catastrophe. If these systems could also autonomously replicate and resist attempts to shut them down, it would seem difficult to put an upper limit on the potential damage.
Given how quickly things could play out, we don’t think it’s good enough to “wait and see” whether there are dangers.
We believe in vigilantly, continually assessing risks. If an AI brings significant risk of a global catastrophe, the decision to develop and/or release it can’t lie only with the company that creates it.
 METR
 Blog
 Team
 Hiring
 Donate
 Email: [email protected]
