Former Y Combinator president Geoff Ralston launches new AI ‘safety’ fund | TechCrunch
Disrupt 2026: OpenAI, Anthropic, Replit, and more take over 6 industry stages. 25% off tickets now
Back by popular demand: Save up to $300 on Disrupt
 Close
 TechCrunch Desktop Logo
 TechCrunch Mobile Logo
Latest
Startups
Venture
Apple
Security
AI
Apps
Disrupt 2026
Events
Podcasts
Newsletters
SearchSubmit
 Site Search Toggle
 Mega Menu Toggle
Topics
 Latest 
 AI 
 Amazon 
 Apps 
 Biotech & Health 
 Climate 
 Cloud Computing 
 Commerce 
 Crypto 
 Enterprise 
 EVs 
 Fintech 
 Fundraising 
 Gadgets 
 Gaming 
 Google 
 Government & Policy 
 Hardware 
 Instagram 
 Layoffs 
 Media & Entertainment 
 Meta 
 Microsoft 
 Privacy 
 Robotics 
 Security 
 Social 
 Space 
 Startups 
 TikTok 
 Transportation 
 Venture 
More from TechCrunch
 Staff 
 Events 
 Startup Battlefield 
 StrictlyVC 
 Newsletters 
 Podcasts 
 Videos 
 Partner Content 
 TechCrunch Brand Studio 
 Contact Us 
 Image Credits:Web Summit 
 Venture 
 Former Y Combinator president Geoff Ralston launches new AI ‘safety’ fund
 Julie Bort
 12:33 PM PDT · April 17, 2025
Geoff Ralston, well-known in the startup community for his years at Y Combinator, is back in the formal investing ring, he announced Thursday.
His new fund is called Safe Artificial Intelligence Fund, or SAIF, which is both an explanation of its thesis and a play on words.
Ralston is specifically looking for startups that “enhance AI safety, security, and responsible deployment,” as his fund’s website describes. He plans to write $100,000 checks as a SAFE, “pun intended,” he says, with a $10 million cap. A SAFE is, of course, the invest now/price later pre-seed investment tool pioneered by Y Combinator (it stands for simple agreement for future equity).
While most VCs these days are looking to invest in AI startups, Ralston’s take is a bit more focused on the idea of safe AI, even though he admits the concept is a bit broad.
“The vast majority of AI projects out in the world today are using the technology to solve problems or create efficiencies or create new capabilities. They are not necessarily intrinsically unsafe, but safety is not their primary concern,” Ralston tells TechCrunch. “I intend to fund startups whose primary objective is safe AI — as I have (very broadly) defined it.”
That list includes startups focused on improving the safety of AI, like those that clarify an AI’s decision-making process or benchmark AI safety. It includes products that protect intellectual property, those that ensure an AI conforms to compliance requirements, fight disinformation, and detect AI-generated attacks. He also wants to invest in functional AI tools with built-in safety in mind, such as better AI forecasting tools and AI-enabled business negotiation tools that won’t reveal corporate secrets to outsiders.
This might sound like a list of AI startups that many VCs are pursuing, but there are areas Ralston says he won’t back. One example is fully autonomous weapons.
“There are certainly uses of AI which would (will) be unsafe: using the technology to create bioweapons, to manage conventional weapons without a human in the loop, etc.,” he explained. 
In fact, he’d like to fund “weapon safety systems” that could detect or prevent attacks from AI weapons.
This is an interesting contrarian viewpoint from many of today’s defense tech founders and VCs. As TechCrunch has previously reported, some of the people building AI weapons have increasingly been floating the idea that such weapons would be better operating without a human. 
Still, all things AI is a crowded field for VCs these days. That’s where Ralston hopes his YC connections could give him an advantage. Ralston departed YC in 2022, after three years as president (succeeded by Garry Tan) and over a decade as an adviser. 
Ralston plans to offer mentoring of the kind he did at the storied startup accelerator and has promised to coach them through how to apply to YC. And he’s offering to help them tap into his considerable investor network. 
Ralston declined to say how big this fund is, how many startups he intends to back, or who his LP backers are.
 Topics
 AI, Geoff Ralston, TC, Venture, venture funds, Y Combinator 
 When you purchase through links in our articles, we may earn a small commission. This doesn’t affect our editorial independence.
 Julie Bort 
 Venture Editor
 Julie Bort is the Startups/Venture Desk editor for TechCrunch. 
You can contact or verify outreach from Julie by emailing julie.bort@techcrunch.com or via @Julie188 on X. 
 View Bio 
 October 13 – 15
 San Francisco
Last day to book an exhibit table is September 18. Don’t miss out on high-impact leads, investor access, and a brand spotlight in Disrupt’s Expo Hall.
BOOK NOW
Most Popular
 Revolut confirms customer data breach through fake government requests
Jagmeet Singh
 OpenAI puts Pro subscriptions on hold due to Astra demand
Sarah Perez
 ID verification giant IDScan confirms data breach with more than 150 million driver’s licenses stolen
Zack Whittaker
 Automattic’s board forces CEO Matt Mullenweg into leave of absence
Julie Bort
Sarah Perez
 Apple unveils its first foldable, the iPhone Duo
Ivan Mehta
 OpenAI fought dirty on career-making math problem, says NYU mathematician
Russell Brandom
 A secret new Elizabeth Holmes documentary stuns Telluride
Connie Loizos
 Loading the next article 
 Error loading the next article 
X
LinkedIn
Facebook
Instagram
youTube
Mastodon
Threads
Bluesky
TechCrunch
Staff
Contact Us
Advertise
Site Map
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
RSS Terms of Use
Code of Conduct
OpenAI
Hugging Face
Flock
Startup Battlefield
Disrupt 2026
Tech Layoffs
ChatGPT
© 2026 TechCrunch Media LLC.
