               Case 22-11068-JTD             Doc 16380         Filed 05/31/24        Page 1 of 3




                       IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                            FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

In re:                                                        Chapter 11

FTX TRADING LTD., et al., 1                                   Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)

         Debtors.                                             (Jointly Administered)

                                                              Ref. No. 8215

    NOTICE OF PROPOSED SALE OF ANTHROPIC SHARES FREE AND CLEAR OF
              LIENS, CLAIMS, INTERESTS AND ENCUMBRANCES

                PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that on November 11 and November 14, 2022, FTX
Trading Ltd. and its affiliated debtors and debtors-in-possession (the “Debtors”) filed voluntary
petitions for relief under title 11 of the United States Code, 11 U.S.C. §§ 101 et seq. (the
“Bankruptcy Code”) in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (the
“Court”).

                 PLEASE TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that on February 3, 2024, the Debtors
filed the Motion of Debtors for Entry of an Order Authorizing and Approving (I) Procedures for
Sale of Debtors’ Equity Interests in Anthropic, PBC; (II) Sale(s) of Such Equity Interests in
Accordance with Such Procedures Free and Clear of any Liens, Claims, Interests and
Encumbrances; and (III) Redaction and Filing Under Seal of Certain Confidential Commercial
Information in the Sale Procedures [D.I. 6952] (the “Motion”) with the Court seeking entry of an
order authorizing and approving, among other things, (a) procedures (the “Sale Procedures”) for
the sale of all or a portion of the Series B Preferred Stock in Anthropic, PBC (the “Anthropic
Shares”) and (b) the sale(s) of the Anthropic Shares in accordance with the Sale Procedures free
and clear of any liens, claims, interests and encumbrances (except as set forth in the Sale
Procedures).

               PLEASE TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that on February 29, 2024, the Court
entered an order (the “Order”) 2 [D.I. 8215] approving the Motion.

                PLEASE TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that in accordance to the Order, the
Debtors hereby provide notice of their intent (a) to sell or transfer certain of the Anthropic Shares
(such sale or transfer, the “Sale”) to the persons or entities set forth in Exhibit 1 attached hereto

1
    The last four digits of FTX Trading Ltd.’s and Alameda Research LLC’s tax identification number are 3288 and
    4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of the
    Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A complete
    list of such information may be obtained on the website of the Debtors’ claims and noticing agent at
    https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd is
    Unit 3B, Bryson’s Commercial Complex, Friars Hill Road, St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda.
2
    Capitalized terms used but otherwise not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Order.
             Case 22-11068-JTD        Doc 16380      Filed 05/31/24     Page 2 of 3




(the “Purchasers”) free and clear of any liens, claims, encumbrances and other interests, pursuant
to the purchase and sale agreement dated March 22, 2024 (the “Purchase and Sale Agreement”)
and (b) to effectuate the Release (as defined in the Sale Order). This notice is being provided in
accordance with, and sets forth the information required, under the Order, including in
satisfaction of the required Sale Disclosures, which information includes: (a) a list of the
Purchasers, the number of Anthropic Shares to be purchased and the aggregate purchase price to
be paid, each as set forth in Exhibit 1; (b) a proposed sale order, and a marked version of such
sale order showing changes against Exhibit 1 of the Order, copies of which are attached hereto in
Exhibit 2; (c) a copy of the executed Purchase and Sale Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit 3;
and (d) declarations from each Purchaser and from the Debtors’ investment banker, Bruce
Mendelsohn, copies of which are attached hereto in Exhibit 4.

                PLEASE TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that responses or objections (the
“Objections”), if any, to the proposed Sale must be filed electronically with the Court on the
docket of In re FTX Trading, LTD., et al., Case No. 22-11068 (JTD), in accordance with Local
Rule 5005-4, and must (a) be in writing and state with specificity the basis for objecting;
(b) comply with the Bankruptcy Code, Bankruptcy Rules, Local Rules and the Order and (c) be
filed with the Court and served (which service may be by email) on (w) the U.S. Trustee, 844
King Street, Suite 2207, Lockbox 35, Wilmington, Delaware 19801, Attn: Linda Richenderfer
(linda.richenderfer@usdoj.gov), Benjamin A. Hackman (benjamin.a.hackman@usdoj.gov) and
Jon Lipshie (jon.lipshie@usdoj.gov), (x) counsel to the Debtors, (1) Sullivan & Cromwell LLP,
125 Broad Street, New York, New York 10004, Attn: Andrew G. Dietderich
(dietdericha@sullcrom.com) and Alexa J. Kranzley (kranzleya@sullcrom.com) and (2) Landis
Rath & Cobb LLP, 919 N. Market St., Suite 1800, Wilmington, Delaware 19801, Attn: Adam G.
Landis (landis@lrclaw.com) and Kimberly A. Brown (brown@lrclaw.com), (y) counsel to the
Official Committee, (1) Paul Hastings LLP, 200 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10166,
Attn: Kristopher M. Hansen (krishansen@paulhastings.com), Luc A. Despins
(lucdespins@paulhastings.com), Erez E. Gilad (erezgilad@paulhastings.com)¸ Gabriel E. Sasson
(gabesasson@paulhastings.com) and Samantha Martin (samanthamartin@paulhastings.com) and
(2) Young Conaway Stargatt & Taylor, LLP, 1000 North King Street, Wilmington, Delaware,
19801, Attn: Matthew B. Lunn (mlunn@ycst.com) and Robert F. Poppiti, Jr.
(rpoppiti@ycst.com), and (z) counsel to the AHC, Eversheds Sutherland (US) LLP, The Grace
Building, 40th Floor, 1114 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036, Attn: Erin
Broderick (erinbroderick@eversheds-sutherland.us) so as to be received by 4:00 p.m.
(prevailing Eastern Time) on June 7, 2024 (the “Sale Objection Deadline”).

                PLEASE TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that only those responses or objections
that are timely filed, served and received will be considered. Absent order of the Court to the
contrary, any party failing to timely file and serve an Objection on or before the Sale
Objection Deadline in accordance with the Order and this notice shall be forever barred
from asserting any objection to the Sale.

        PLEASE TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that this notice is subject to the terms and
conditions of the Motion and the Order, with such Order controlling in the event of any conflict,
and the Debtors encourage parties-in-interest to review such documents in their entirety. Copies
of the Motion and the Order, as well as all related exhibits, including all other documents filed
with the Court, are available (i) free of charge from the website of the Debtors’ claims and

                                                2
             Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380      Filed 05/31/24      Page 3 of 3




noticing agent, Kroll Restructuring Administration (“Kroll”), at
https://restructuring.ra.kroll.com/FTX and (ii) for a fee on the Court’s electronic docket for these
Chapter 11 Cases at www.deb.uscourts.gov (a PACER login and password are required and can
be obtained through the PACER Service Center at www.pacer.psc.uscourts.gov). Documents
relating to the Sale, including the Motion and the Order, can be accessed at
https://restructuring.ra.kroll.com/FTX. In addition, copies of the Motion and the Order may be
requested from Kroll by email at FTXInfo@ra.kroll.com or by phone at 888-482-0049
(US/Canada Toll-Free); 646-440-4176 (International).


Dated: May 31, 2024                         LANDIS RATH & COBB LLP
       Wilmington, Delaware
                                            /s/ Kimberly A. Brown
                                            Adam G. Landis (No. 3407)
                                            Kimberly A. Brown (No. 5138)
                                            Matthew R. Pierce (No. 5946)
                                            919 Market Street, Suite 1800
                                            Wilmington, Delaware 19801
                                            Telephone: (302) 467-4400
                                            Facsimile: (302) 467-4450
                                            E-mail: landis@lrclaw.com
                                                    brown@lrclaw.com
                                                    pierce@lrclaw.com

                                            -and-

                                            SULLIVAN & CROMWELL LLP
                                            Andrew G. Dietderich (admitted pro hac vice)
                                            James L. Bromley (admitted pro hac vice)
                                            Brian D. Glueckstein (admitted pro hac vice)
                                            Alexa J. Kranzley (admitted pro hac vice)
                                            125 Broad Street
                                            New York, NY 10004
                                            Telephone: (212) 558-4000
                                            Facsimile: (212) 558-3588
                                            E-mail: dietdericha@sullcrom.com
                                                    bromleyj@sullcrom.com
                                                    gluecksteinb@sullcrom.com
                                                    kranzleya@sullcrom.com

                                            Counsel for the Debtors and Debtors-in-Possession




                                                 3
            Case 22-11068-JTD     Doc 16380-1       Filed 05/31/24   Page 1 of 1




                                        Exhibit 1

            List of Purchasers, Number of Shares and Aggregate Purchase Price

                                                             Number of        Aggregate
Purchaser
                                                              Shares       Purchase Price
G Squared VI Holdco, LLC                                     4,499,325      $134,999,997
Fund FG-BLU, a Series of Forge Investments LLC               2,266,141       $67,994,428
Fund SCVC-PV-LXVI, a series of SCVC Advisors, LP             1,666,416
                                                                            $49,999,979
(Quickscope Investments)
Manius Invest Co Ltd (Damac Capital)                          1,666,416     $49,999,979
Constitutional AI Fund, a Series of Abundance Master Fund     1,067,760
                                                                            $32,037,605
LLC (Collab LTSE)
Augment Collective, LLC Series Anthropic PBC 1                 833,208      $24,999,989
Gemini Ventures 1, LLC                                         416,604      $12,499,995
MW LSVC Anthropic, LLC (Manhattan West)                        386,000      $11,581,737
Constitutional AI Governance Fund 2 LLC                        371,430      $11,144,571
GA-IP Opportunities II, LLC                                    333,284      $10,000,020
Elysium VC(N) LLC                                              333,283       $9,999,990
Korea Investment Partners Co., Ltd. - KIP Re-Up II Fund        333,283       $9,999,990
A.G.P Alternative Investment Fund V- Series 1 LLC              283,058
                                                                             $8,493,014
(Headwall)
Fund FG-AGV, a Series of Forge Investments LLC                 132,734       $3,982,617
TeleSoft-2020, LP                                              103,317       $3,099,975
TeleSoft Capital, LLC                                          103,317       $3,099,975
Green Book Ventures Horizon III LLC                             93,952       $2,818,983
Scenic Co-Invest Anthropic LLC                                  73,322       $2,199,990
Scenic Private Access Fund I, L.P.                              66,656       $1,999,980
Fund XLVIII, a series of SCVC Advisors, LP (Quickscope          23,822
                                                                              $714,767
Investments)
A.G.P Alternative Investment Fund IV- Series 4 LLC             20,021         $600,720
Total                                                        15,073,349     $452,268,300
Case 22-11068-JTD    Doc 16380-2    Filed 05/31/24   Page 1 of 49




                           Exhibit 2

   Proposed Sale Order and Redline Against Form of Sale Order
             Case 22-11068-JTD             Doc 16380-2          Filed 05/31/24        Page 2 of 49




                        IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                             FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

In re:                                                         Chapter 11

FTX TRADING LTD., et al.,1                                    Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)

         Debtors.                                              (Jointly Administered)

                                                               Ref. Nos. 8215

      ORDER (I) AUTHORIZING AND APPROVING SALE OF ANTHROPIC SHARES
    FREE AND CLEAR OF ANY LIENS, CLAIMS, INTERESTS AND ENCUMBRANCES;
                 (II) AUTHORIZING AND APPROVING ENTRY INTO,
                 AND PERFORMANCE UNDER, THE PURCHASE AND
           SALE AGREEMENT; AND (III) GRANTING RELATED RELIEF

                  Upon (i) the motion (the “Motion”)2 of FTX Trading Ltd. and its affiliated debtors

and debtors-in-possession (collectively, the “Debtors”), for entry of an order (this “Sale Order”),

pursuant to sections 105(a) and 363 of title 11 of the United States Code, 11 U.S.C. §§ 101 et

seq. (the “Bankruptcy Code”), rules 2002 and 6004 of the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy

Procedure (the “Bankruptcy Rules”) and rules 2002-1, 6004-1 and 9006-1 of the Local Rules of

Bankruptcy Practice and Procedure of the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of

Delaware (the “Local Rules”), authorizing and approving (a) procedures (the “Sale Procedures”)

for the sale of all or a portion of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock (the “Anthropic Shares”)

held by Debtor Clifton Bay Investments LLC in Anthropic, PBC, a Delaware public benefit

corporation, (b) the sale(s) of the Anthropic Shares in accordance with the Sale Procedures free




1
     The last four digits of FTX Trading Ltd.’s and Alameda Research LLC’s tax identification number are 3288 and
     4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of the
     Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A complete
     list of such information may be obtained on the website of the Debtors’ claims and noticing agent at
     https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd
     is Unit 3B, Bryson’s Commercial Complex, Friars Hill Road, St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda.
2
     Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein are to be given the meanings ascribed to them in the Motion.
           Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-2       Filed 05/31/24     Page 3 of 49




and clear of any liens, claims, interests and encumbrances, and (c) redaction and filing under seal

of certain confidential commercial information, (ii) this Court’s order approving the Motion

[D.I. 8215] (the “Sale Procedures Order”), and (iii) the Purchase and Sale Agreement (the

“Purchase and Sale Agreement”, and the transactions contemplated thereby, the “Sale

Transaction”), dated as of May 31, 2024, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 3 to the Sale

Disclosures notice in accordance with the Sale Procedures, between Clifton Bay Investments

LLC (together with the other Debtors, “Seller”) and the purchasers listed on Schedule A to the

Purchase and Sale Agreement (each, a “Purchaser” and together, “Purchasers”); and this Court

having jurisdiction to consider the approval of the Purchase and Sale Agreement in accordance

with the Sale Procedures pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 157 and 1334 and the Amended Standing

Order of Reference from the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, dated

February 29, 2012; and this Court being able to issue a final order consistent with Article III of

the United States Constitution; and venue of these Chapter 11 Cases and this matter in this

district being proper pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 1408 and 1409; and this matter being a core

proceeding pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 157(b); and this Court having found that notice of the

Purchase and Sale Agreement and the relief requested therein has been provided in accordance

with the Sale Procedures, Bankruptcy Rules and the Local Rules; and that, except as otherwise

ordered herein, no other or further notice is necessary; and objections (if any) to the relief

requested having been withdrawn, resolved or overruled on the merits; and upon the record of all

of the proceedings had before this Court; and this Court having found and determined that the

legal and factual bases establish just cause for the relief granted herein; and after due deliberation

and sufficient cause appearing therefor,




                                                  2
            Case 22-11068-JTD              Doc 16380-2          Filed 05/31/24        Page 4 of 49




                 IT IS HEREBY FOUND AND DETERMINED THAT:3

                 A.       Jurisdiction and Venue. This Court has jurisdiction over this matter and

over the property of the Debtors’ estates pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 157 and 1334 and the

Amended Standing Order of Reference from the United States District Court for the District of

Delaware, dated February 29, 2012. This Court may issue a final order consistent with Article

III of the United States Constitution. Venue is proper pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 1408 and 1409.

This matter is a core proceeding pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 157(b).

                 B.       Statutory and Rule Predicates. The statutory and other legal predicates for

the approvals and authorization herein are sections 105(a) and 363 of the Bankruptcy Code,

Bankruptcy Rules 2002, 6004, 9007, 9008 and 9014 and Local Rules 2002-1, 6004-1 and

9006-1.

                 C.       Final Order. This Sale Order constitutes a final order within the meaning

of 28 U.S.C. § 158(a). Notwithstanding Bankruptcy Rule 6004(h), and to the extent necessary

under Bankruptcy Rule 9014 and rule 54(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedures, as made

applicable by Bankruptcy Rule 7054, this Court expressly finds that there is no just reason for

delay in the implementation of this Sale Order, and expressly directs entry of judgment as set

forth herein and authorizes the closing of the Sale Transaction contemplated hereby without

regard to any stay or delay in its implementation.

                 D.       Compliance with the Sale Procedures. The Sale Procedures provided a

full, fair and reasonable opportunity for any party to make an offer to purchase the Anthropic

Shares. The disclosures made by the Debtors with respect to the Purchase and Sale Agreement




3
    Findings of fact shall be construed as conclusions of law and conclusions of law shall be construed as findings
    of fact to the fullest extent of the law. See FED. R. BANKR. P. 7052.

                                                         3
           Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-2      Filed 05/31/24      Page 5 of 49




and the Sale Transaction were good, complete and adequate. The Debtors (including Seller),

Purchasers and their respective counsel and other advisors have complied, in good faith, with the

Sale Procedures Order and the Sale Procedures in all respects. Through marketing efforts and a

competitive sale process conducted in accordance with the Sale Procedures, the Debtors

(i) afforded interested potential purchasers a full, fair and reasonable opportunity to qualify as

bidders and submit their highest or otherwise best offer to purchase the Anthropic Shares,

(ii) provided potential purchasers sufficient information to enable them to make an informed

judgment on whether to bid on the Anthropic Shares and (iii) considered any bids properly

submitted in accordance with the Sale Procedures on or before the deadline for bidding.

               E.      No Collusion. No Purchaser is an “insider” of the Debtors, as that term is

defined in section 101(31) of the Bankruptcy Code. The Purchase and Sale Agreement and the

Sale Transaction were negotiated, proposed and entered into by Seller and each Purchaser

without collusion or fraud, in good faith and from arm’s-length bargaining positions, and are

substantively and procedurally fair to all parties. Neither the Debtors nor any Purchaser has

engaged in any conduct that would cause or permit the Purchase and Sale Agreement or the

consummation of the Sale Transaction to be avoided, or costs or damages to be imposed under

section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code, and accordingly neither the Debtors nor any Purchaser

has violated section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code by any action or inaction. Specifically, no

Purchaser has acted in a collusive manner with any person and the purchase price was not

controlled by any agreement among bidders. The Sale Transaction may not be avoided, and no

damages may be assessed against any Purchaser or any other party under section 363(n) of the

Bankruptcy Code or any other applicable bankruptcy or non-bankruptcy law.




                                                  4
           Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-2       Filed 05/31/24     Page 6 of 49




               F.      Good Faith of Purchasers. Each Purchaser is purchasing its respective

portion of the Anthropic Shares in good faith and for value, and is a good-faith buyer within the

meaning of section 363(m) of the Bankruptcy Code. Each Purchaser is therefore entitled to all of

the protections afforded under section 363(m) and any other applicable or similar bankruptcy or

non-bankruptcy law, and otherwise has proceeded in good faith in all respects in connection with

this proceeding in that, inter alia: (a) each Purchaser recognized that the Debtors were free to

deal with any other party interested in acquiring the Anthropic Shares; (b) each Purchaser

complied with the provisions in the Sale Procedures Order; (c) each Purchaser in no way induced

or caused the filing of these Chapter 11 Cases by the Debtors; (d) all payments to be made, and

all other material agreements or arrangements entered into or to be entered into, by each

Purchaser in connection with the Sale Transaction have been disclosed; (e) no Purchaser has

violated section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code by any action or inaction; (f) the negotiation and

execution of the Purchase and Sale Agreement were at arm’s length and in good faith, and at all

times each Purchaser and Seller were represented by competent counsel of their choosing; and

(g) no Purchaser has acted in a collusive manner with any person. Each Purchaser will be acting

in good faith within the meaning of section 363(m) in closing the transactions contemplated by

the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

               G.      Highest and Best Offer. The Debtors and their advisors, including,

without limitation, Perella Weinberg Partners LP, have appropriately marketed the Anthropic

Shares and conducted the related sale process contemplated by the Sale Procedures Order, and a

reasonable opportunity has been given to any interested party to make a higher or better offer for

the Anthropic Shares. No other person or entity or group of entities has offered to purchase the

Anthropic Shares for higher or otherwise better value to the Debtors’ estates than Purchasers.



                                                 5
           Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-2      Filed 05/31/24      Page 7 of 49




The offer to purchase the Anthropic Shares made by each Purchaser, under the terms and

conditions set forth in the Purchase and Sale Agreement: (a) was made in good faith and

complied in all respects with the Sale Procedures Order; (b) is the highest or otherwise best offer

obtained for the Anthropic Shares and will provide a greater recovery for the Debtors’ estates

than would be provided by any other reasonably available alternative; (c) is for fair, adequate and

sufficient consideration that constitutes reasonably equivalent value for the Anthropic Shares

being conveyed to such Purchaser; (d) is fair and reasonable; (e) is in the best interests of the

Debtors’ estates; and (f) would not have been made by such Purchaser absent the protections

afforded to such Purchaser by this Sale Order.

               H.      The Debtors’ determination that the Sale Transaction, pursuant to the

Purchase and Sale Agreement, provides the highest or otherwise best offer for the Anthropic

Shares, and their related decision to sell the Anthropic Shares, constitute a reasonable exercise of

the Debtors’ business judgment. The facts and circumstances demonstrate the Debtors’ business

judgment to sell the Anthropic Shares to Purchasers at this time, and the Debtors have articulated

sound business reasons for consummating the Sale Transaction and for selling the Anthropic

Shares outside of a chapter 11 plan. Moreover, the sale of the Anthropic Shares outside of a

chapter 11 plan pursuant to the Purchase and Sale Agreement neither impermissibly restructures

the rights of the Debtors’ creditors nor dictates the terms of any chapter 11 plan. The Sale

Transaction does not constitute a sub rosa chapter 11 plan. It is a reasonable exercise of the

Debtors’ business judgment to execute, deliver and consummate the Sale Transaction, subject to

this Sale Order.

               I.      Fair Consideration. The consideration provided by each Purchaser

pursuant to the Purchase and Sale Agreement constitutes reasonably equivalent value (as those



                                                  6
           Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-2       Filed 05/31/24     Page 8 of 49




terms are defined in each of the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act, Uniform Fraudulent

Conveyance Act and section 548 of the Bankruptcy Code) and fair consideration under the

Bankruptcy Code and under the laws of the United States, any state, territory, possession or the

District of Columbia.

               J.       No Successor or Other Derivative Liability. As a result of any action

taken in connection with the Sale Transaction, the Purchase and Sale Agreement, or this Sale

Order: (a) no Purchaser is a successor to or mere continuation of or substantial continuation of

the Debtors or their estates and there is no continuity of enterprise between any Purchaser and

the Debtors; and (b) no Purchaser shall be deemed to be holding itself out to the public as a

continuation of the Debtors based on the Sale Transaction. No Purchaser is, or shall be,

considered a successor in interest to any of the Debtors or their estates, by reason of any theory

of law or equity, and the Sale Transaction does not amount to a consolidation, succession,

merger, or de facto merger of any Purchaser and the Debtors and/or the Debtors’ estates. No

Purchaser would have entered into the Purchase and Sale Agreement if the sale of the Anthropic

Shares were not made free and clear of any successor liability of such Purchaser.

               K.       Corporate Power and Authority. As set forth in section 2.1 of the

Purchase and Sale Agreement, Seller (a) has full corporate power and authority to execute and

deliver the Purchase and Sale Agreement and all other documents contemplated thereby, (b) has

all corporate authority necessary to consummate the Sale Transaction, and (c) has taken all

corporate action and formalities necessary to authorize and approve the Purchase and Sale

Agreement and the consummation of the Sale Transaction. Seller’s sale of the Anthropic Shares

has been duly and validly authorized by all necessary corporate action of the Debtors. No




                                                 7
           Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-2       Filed 05/31/24      Page 9 of 49




consents or approvals, other than those expressly provided for in the Purchase and Sale

Agreement, are required for Seller to consummate the Sale Transaction.

               L.      The Purchase and Sale Agreement was not entered into for the purpose of

hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors under the Bankruptcy Code or under the laws of the

United States, any state, territory, possession or the District of Columbia. Neither the Debtors

nor any Purchaser is entering into the Sale Transaction fraudulently for the purpose of statutory

and common law fraudulent conveyance and fraudulent transfer claims.

               M.      Title to Assets. The transfer of the Debtors’ rights, titles and interests to

the Anthropic Shares to each Purchaser will be, as of the Closing Date (as defined in the

Purchase and Sale Agreement), a legal, valid and effective transfer of such rights, titles and

interests in such Anthropic Shares, which transfer vests or will vest such Purchaser with all

rights, titles and interests of the Debtors to such Anthropic Shares free and clear of any Liens (as

defined below and in the Purchase and Sale Agreement), other than the permitted encumbrances

set forth in the Purchase and Sale Agreement (including restrictions arising under applicable

securities laws or as set forth in the Company Documents or the legends on certificates of the

Anthropic Shares) (such encumbrances, “Permitted Encumbrances”). The Purchase and Sale

Agreement is a valid and binding contract between Seller and each Purchaser and shall be

enforceable according to its terms.

               N.      Satisfaction of Section 363(f) Standards. The conditions of section 363(f)

of the Bankruptcy Code have been satisfied in full, and upon entry of this Sale Order, the

Debtors are authorized to transfer all of their rights, titles and interests in and to the Anthropic

Shares free and clear of any interest in the property, other than Permitted Encumbrances. The

Debtors may sell the Anthropic Shares free and clear of any liens (statutory or otherwise),



                                                   8
           Case 22-11068-JTD           Doc 16380-2        Filed 05/31/24       Page 10 of 49




charges, pledges, mortgages, leases, easements, hypothecations, usufructs, deeds of trust,

security interests, options, rights of use, first offer or first refusal, servitudes, restrictive

covenants or conditions, encroachments, claims, interests, restrictions, or any other

encumbrances of any kind (collectively, “Liens”), other than Permitted Encumbrances, against

the Debtors, their estates or the Anthropic Shares because, in each case, one or more of the

standards set forth in section 363(f)(l)-(5) of the Bankruptcy Code has been satisfied. Each

holder with a Lien on the Anthropic Shares to be transferred pursuant to the Purchase and Sale

Agreement: (a) has, subject to the terms and conditions of this Sale Order, consented to the Sale

Transaction or is deemed to have consented; (b) could be compelled in a legal or equitable

proceeding to accept money satisfaction of such Lien; or (c) otherwise falls within one or more

of the other subsections of section 363(f) of the Bankruptcy Code. Holders of Liens against the

Debtors, their estates or the Anthropic Shares who did not object, or who withdrew their

objections, to the Sale Transaction (except with respect to Permitted Encumbrances), are deemed

to have consented pursuant to section 363(f)(2) of the Bankruptcy Code. All other holders of

Liens are adequately protected by having their Liens, if any, in each instance against the Debtors,

their estates or the Anthropic Shares, attach to the net cash proceeds of the Sale Transaction

ultimately attributable to the Anthropic Shares in which such creditor alleges a Lien, in the same

order of priority, with the same validity, force and effect that such Liens had prior to the Sale

Transaction, subject to any claims and defenses the Debtors and their estates may possess with

respect thereto.

                O.       No Purchaser would have entered into the Purchase and Sale Agreement

or would consummate the Sale Transaction if the sale of the Anthropic Shares to such Purchaser

were not free and clear of any Liens (other than Permitted Encumbrances), or if such Purchaser



                                                     9
           Case 22-11068-JTD            Doc 16380-2    Filed 05/31/24      Page 11 of 49




or any of the applicable Purchaser Parties (as defined in the Purchase and Sale Agreement)

would, or in the future could, be liable for any such Lien. The total consideration to be provided

by each Purchaser under the Purchase and Sale Agreement reflects such Purchaser’s reliance on

this Sale Order to provide it, pursuant to sections 105(a) and 363 of the Bankruptcy Code, with

title to, interest in and possession of the Anthropic Shares free and clear of any Liens (other than

Permitted Encumbrances). Not transferring the Anthropic Shares free and clear of any Liens

(other than Permitted Encumbrances) would adversely impact the Debtors’ efforts to maximize

the value of the estates, and the transfer of the Anthropic Shares other than pursuant to a transfer

that is free and clear of any Liens (other than Permitted Encumbrances) would be of substantially

less benefit to the Debtors’ estates.

               P.      Release. The entry into a release by Seller on behalf of itself, and on

behalf of its predecessors and successors, past and present agents, representatives, partners,

directors, officers, attorneys, employees, shareholders, affiliates, subsidiaries, heirs, executors,

administrators and assigns, as well as any person acting by, through, under or in concert with any

of the foregoing (collectively, the “Releasors”) in favor of Anthropic, PBC, and its predecessors

and successors, past and present agents, representatives, partners, directors, officers, attorneys,

employees, shareholders, affiliates, subsidiaries, heirs, executors, administrators and assigns, as

well as any person acting by, through, under or in concert with any of the foregoing,

(collectively, the “Releasees”) in respect of any and all claims, demands, causes of action,

obligations, damages, losses, liabilities, contracts, agreements, promises, debts, costs and

expenses of any kind whatsoever, whether at law or in equity, asserted or unasserted, known or

unknown, suspected or unsuspected, fixed or contingent (collectively, “Claims”), which such

party ever had, now has, or may claim to have against Anthropic, PBC, arising from the Sale



                                                  10
          Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-2       Filed 05/31/24     Page 12 of 49




Transaction, but excluding any other Claims that the Releasors may have against Anthropic,

PBC, including (a) any Claims arising out of Seller’s acquisition or ownership of the Anthropic

Shares, (b) any Claims arising in any Releasor’s capacity as a shareholder of Anthropic, PBC

and unrelated to the Sale Transaction and (c) any claims arising after the date the Sale

Transaction is consummated (such release, the “Release”) is approved in full. Anthropic, PBC

would not have consented to the Sale Transaction in the absence of such releases, and therefore

the releases are supported by adequate consideration and are reasonable. See Mendelsohn

Declaration ¶ 21.

               Q.      [Waiver of Bankruptcy Rule 6004(h). Good and sufficient reasons for

approval of the Purchase and Sale Agreement and the Sale Transaction have been articulated.

The Debtors have demonstrated both (a) good, sufficient and sound business purposes and

justifications and (b) compelling circumstances for the Sale Transaction other than in the

ordinary course of business, pursuant to section 363(b) of the Bankruptcy Code before, and

outside of, a chapter 11 plan, in that, among other things, the immediate consummation of the

Sale Transaction is necessary and appropriate to maximize the value of the Debtors’ estates and

progress these Chapter 11 Cases. Accordingly, there is cause to waive or lift the stay

contemplated by Bankruptcy Rule 6004(h) with respect to the Sale Transaction. To maximize

the value of the Anthropic Shares, it is essential that the Sale Transaction occur within the time

constraints set forth in the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Time is of the essence in

consummating the Sale Transaction and the Debtors and Purchasers intend to close the Sale

Transaction as soon as practicable. Given all of the circumstances of these Chapter 11 Cases and




                                                 11
               Case 22-11068-JTD              Doc 16380-2            Filed 05/31/24   Page 13 of 49




the adequacy and fair value of the Aggregate Purchase Prices under the Purchase and Sale

Agreement, the proposed Sale Transaction should be approved.]4

                    R.        The consummation of the Sale Transaction is legal, valid and properly

authorized under all applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, including, without limitation,

sections 105(a), 363(b), 363(f) and 363(m), and all of the applicable requirements of such

sections have been complied with in respect of the transaction.

                    S.        Personally Identifiable Information. The Sale Transaction does not

involve the sale of any personally identifiable information. Thus, the appointment of a consumer

privacy ombudsman pursuant to section 363(b)(1) or section 332 of the Bankruptcy Code is not

required with respect to the Sale Transaction.

                    T.        Legal and Factual Bases. The legal and factual bases establish just cause

for the relief granted herein. Entry of this Sale Order is in the best interests of the Debtors and

their estates.

                    IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A.         General Provisions

                    1.        The sale of the Anthropic Shares and the other relief requested is granted

as set forth herein, and the Purchase and Sale Agreement and the provisions thereof and the Sale

Transaction are approved in their entirety as set forth herein.

                    2.        All objections, responses, reservations of rights and requests for any

continuances concerning the Sale Transaction are resolved in accordance with the terms of this

Sale Order. To the extent any such objections, responses, reservations of rights or requests for




4
    Only to be included in the event no objections are filed.


                                                                12
            Case 22-11068-JTD        Doc 16380-2       Filed 05/31/24     Page 14 of 49




any continuances were not otherwise withdrawn, waived, settled, or resolved, such are hereby

overruled and denied on the merits. All interested parties that failed to timely object to the Sale

Transaction are deemed to have consented to the relief granted herein for all purposes, including,

without limitation, pursuant to section 363(f)(2) of the Bankruptcy Code.

               3.      Notice of the Purchase and Sale Agreement and the sale of the Anthropic

Shares free and clear of any Liens, except Permitted Encumbrances, was fair, equitable, proper,

and sufficient under the circumstances and complied in all respects with the Sale Procedures and

the Sale Procedures Order.

B.      Approval of the Purchase and Sale Agreement

               4.      The Purchase and Sale Agreement and all of the terms and conditions

thereof are hereby authorized and approved in all respects. The failure to specifically include or

make reference to any particular provision of the Purchase and Sale Agreement in this Sale

Order shall not impair the effectiveness of such provision, it being the intent of this Court that

the Purchase and Sale Agreement and the Sale Transaction are authorized and approved in their

entirety.

               5.      Pursuant to sections 363(b) and (f) of the Bankruptcy Code, the Debtors

are authorized and empowered to take any and all actions necessary or appropriate to

(a) consummate the Sale Transaction to Purchasers in accordance with the terms and conditions

of the Purchase and Sale Agreement, (b) close the Sale Transaction as contemplated in the

Purchase and Sale Agreement and this Sale Order, and (c) execute and deliver, perform under,

consummate and implement the Purchase and Sale Agreement, together with all additional

instruments and documents that may be reasonably necessary or desirable to implement the

Purchase and Sale Agreement and the Sale Transaction. No Purchaser shall be required to seek

or obtain relief from the automatic stay under section 362 of the Bankruptcy Code to enforce any

                                                 13
           Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-2       Filed 05/31/24      Page 15 of 49




of its remedies under the Purchase and Sale Agreement or any other sale-related document. The

automatic stay imposed by section 362 of the Bankruptcy Code is modified solely to the extent

necessary to implement the preceding sentence and the other provisions of this Sale Order;

provided, however, that this Court shall retain exclusive jurisdiction over any and all disputes

with respect thereto.

                6.      This Sale Order shall be binding in all respects upon the Debtors, their

estates, all creditors of and holders of equity interests in, the Debtors, any holders of Liens in,

against or on all or any portion of the Anthropic Shares (whether known or unknown),

Purchasers and all successors and assigns of Purchasers, the Anthropic Shares and any trustees, if

any, subsequently appointed in these Chapter 11 Cases or upon a conversion to Chapter 7 under

the Bankruptcy Code of these Chapter 11 Cases. This Sale Order and the Purchase and Sale

Agreement shall inure to the benefit of the Debtors, their estates and creditors, Purchasers and

the respective successors and assigns of each of the foregoing.

C.      Consummation of the Sale Transaction

                7.      Pursuant to sections 363(b) and 363(f) of the Bankruptcy Code, the

Debtors are authorized to transfer all of their rights, titles and interests to each Purchaser’s

respective Anthropic Shares to such Purchaser on the Closing Date and such transfer shall

constitute a legal, valid, binding and effective transfer of such rights, titles and interests in such

Anthropic Shares and shall vest such Purchaser with all of the Debtors’ rights, titles and interests

in such Anthropic Shares and, upon the Debtors’ receipt of the applicable Aggregate Purchase

Price, shall be free and clear of any Liens, including but not limited to, successor or successor-in-

interest liability or, any tax liens or mechanic’s liens asserted against such Anthropic Shares,

except Permitted Encumbrances, with any Liens to attach to the net cash proceeds ultimately

attributable to the property against or in which such Liens are asserted, subject to the terms

                                                  14
          Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-2        Filed 05/31/24    Page 16 of 49




thereof, with the same validity, force and effect, and in the same order of priority, which such

Liens now have against such Anthropic Shares, subject to any rights, claims and defenses the

Debtors or their estates, as applicable, may possess with respect thereto. The provisions of this

Sale Order authorizing and approving the transfer of the Anthropic Shares free and clear of any

Liens (other than Permitted Encumbrances) shall be self-executing, and neither the Debtors nor

any Purchaser shall be required to execute or file releases, termination statements, assignments,

consents, or other instruments in order to effectuate, consummate, and implement the provisions

of this Sale Order. The Release is approved in full.

               8.      A certified copy of this Sale Order may be filed with the appropriate clerk

and/or recorded with the recorder to act to cancel any Liens and other encumbrances of record

except Permitted Encumbrances.

               9.      If any person or entity which has filed statements or other documents or

agreements evidencing Liens in, against or on all or any portion of the Anthropic Shares shall not

have delivered to the Debtors prior to the Closing, in proper form for filing and executed by the

appropriate parties, termination statements, instruments of satisfaction, releases of Liens and any

other documents necessary for the purpose of documenting the release of any Liens which the

person or entity has or may assert with respect to all or any portion of the Anthropic Shares, the

Debtors, Purchasers and each of their respective officers, employees and agents are hereby

authorized and empowered to execute and file such statements, instruments, releases and other

documents on behalf of such person or entity with respect to the Anthropic Shares.

               10.     This Sale Order is and shall be effective as a determination that, on the

Closing Date, any Liens existing as to the Anthropic Shares prior to the Closing Date, except

Permitted Encumbrances, shall have been unconditionally released, discharged and terminated



                                                15
           Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-2        Filed 05/31/24      Page 17 of 49




from the Anthropic Shares, and that the conveyances described herein have been effected. This

Sale Order is and shall be binding upon and govern the acts of all persons and entities, including,

without limitation, all filing agents, filing officers, title agents, title companies, recorders of

mortgages, recorders of deeds, registrars of deeds, administrative agencies, governmental

departments, secretaries of state, federal, state and local officials and all other persons and

entities who may be required by operation of law, the duties of their office, or contract, to accept,

file, register or otherwise record or release any documents or instruments, or who may be

required to report or insure any title or state of title in or to any lease; and each of the foregoing

persons and entities is hereby directed to accept for filing any and all of the documents and

instruments necessary and appropriate to consummate the Sale Transaction.

D.      Prohibition of Actions Against Purchasers

                11.     Except as expressly provided for in this Sale Order or the Purchase and

Sale Agreement, no Purchaser shall have any liability or other obligation or responsibility of the

Debtors arising under or related to its respective Anthropic Shares prior to the Closing. No

Purchaser is a “successor” to the Debtors or their estates by reason of any theory of law or

equity. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, and except as otherwise specifically

provided herein or in the Purchase and Sale Agreement, no Purchaser shall be liable for any

claims against the Debtors or any of their predecessors or affiliates, and no Purchaser shall have

any successor or vicarious liabilities of any kind or character, including, but not limited to, under

any theory of antitrust, environmental (subject to paragraph 15 below), successor or transferee

liability, securities law, tax law, labor law, de facto merger, mere continuation or substantial

continuity, whether known or unknown as of the Closing Date, now existing or hereafter arising,

whether fixed or contingent, whether asserted or unasserted, whether legal or equitable, whether

liquidated or unliquidated, including, but not limited to, liabilities on account of warranties,

                                                   16
           Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-2       Filed 05/31/24     Page 18 of 49




environmental liabilities (subject to paragraph 15 below), and any taxes arising, accruing or

payable under, out of, in connection with, or in any way relating to any of such Purchaser’s

respective Anthropic Shares prior to the Closing. The Sale Transaction does not amount to a

consolidation, merger or de facto merger of any Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors, the

Debtors’ affiliates and/or the Debtors’ estates, on the other hand, and there is not substantial

continuity between any Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors or their affiliates, on the

other hand, and no Purchaser is a mere continuation of the Debtors or their estates, and no

Purchaser constitutes a successor to the Debtors or their estates. For purposes of paragraphs 11

to 14 of this Sale Order, all references to a Purchaser shall include its respective Purchaser

Parties.

               12.     Except as expressly otherwise set forth in the Purchase and Sale

Agreement and this Sale Order, all persons and entities, including, but not limited to, all debt

security holders, equity security holders, governmental, tax and regulatory authorities, lenders,

trade creditors, dealers, employees, litigation claimants and other creditors, holding Liens against

or in all or any portion of the Anthropic Shares (whether legal or equitable, secured or unsecured,

matured or unmatured, contingent or non-contingent, liquidated or unliquidated, senior or

subordinate), arising under or out of, in connection with, or in any way relating to the Debtors or

the Anthropic Shares prior to the Closing Date or the Sale Transaction, including the transfer of

the Anthropic Shares to Purchasers, hereby are forever barred, estopped and permanently

enjoined from asserting against any Purchaser, its Affiliates, its successors or assigns, their

property or the Anthropic Shares, such persons’ or entities’ Liens with respect to the Anthropic

Shares, including, without limitation, the following actions: (a) commencing or continuing in any

manner any action or other proceeding against any Purchaser, its Affiliates, its successors, assets



                                                 17
           Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-2       Filed 05/31/24     Page 19 of 49




or properties; (b) enforcing, attaching, collecting or recovering in any manner any judgment,

award, decree or order against any Purchaser, its Affiliates, its successors, assets or properties;

(c) creating, perfecting or enforcing any Liens against any Purchaser, its Affiliates, its

successors, assets or properties; (d) asserting any unexercised set-off or right of subrogation

against any obligation due with respect to any Purchaser, its Affiliates or its successors;

(e) commencing or continuing any action, in any manner or place, that does not comply or is

inconsistent with the provisions of this Sale Order, or the agreements or actions contemplated or

taken in respect thereof or (f) to the extent provided in section 525 of the Bankruptcy Code,

revoking, terminating or failing or refusing to transfer or renew any license, permit or

authorization to operate the businesses of Anthropic, subject to paragraph 16 below. On the

Closing Date, each creditor is authorized and directed to execute such documents and take all

other actions as may be necessary to release Liens in or on the Anthropic Shares (except

Permitted Encumbrances), if any, as provided for herein, as such Liens may have been recorded

or may otherwise exist.

               13.     All persons and entities are hereby forever prohibited and enjoined from

taking any action that would adversely affect or interfere (a) with the ability of the Debtors to

sell and transfer the Anthropic Shares to any Purchaser in accordance with the terms of the

Purchase and Sale Agreement and this Sale Order, and (b) with the ability of any Purchaser to

acquire and take possession of the Anthropic Shares in accordance with the terms of the

Purchase and Sale Agreement and this Sale Order.

               14.     Each Purchaser has given substantial consideration under the Purchase and

Sale Agreement for the benefit of the Debtors and their estates. The consideration given by each

Purchaser shall constitute valid and valuable consideration for the sale being free and clear of



                                                 18
           Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-2       Filed 05/31/24     Page 20 of 49




any potential liens, claims, interests, and encumbrances, including any Liens, as to the Anthropic

Shares pursuant to this Sale Order, except with respect to the Permitted Encumbrances, and free

and clear of any potential claims of successor liability against such Purchaser. The consideration

provided by Purchasers for the Anthropic Shares under the Purchase and Sale Agreement is fair

and reasonable and may not be avoided under section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code.

E.       Other Provisions

               15.     Nothing in this Sale Order or the Purchase and Sale Agreement releases,

nullifies, precludes or enjoins the enforcement of any police or regulatory liability to a

governmental unit that any entity would be subject to as the post-sale owner or operator of

property after the date of entry of this Sale Order. In addition, nothing in this Sale Order divests

any tribunal of any jurisdiction it may have under police or regulatory law, including the

jurisdiction to interpret this Sale Order or to adjudicate any defense asserted under this Sale

Order.

               16.     Further, nothing in this Sale Order or Purchase and Sale Agreement

authorizes the transfer or assignment of any governmental license, permit, registration,

authorization or approval, or the discontinuation of any obligation thereunder, without

compliance with all applicable legal requirements and approvals under police or regulatory law

as appropriate. Nothing in this Sale Order authorizes any sale or transfer of the Anthropic

Shares, or permits the Sale Transaction to close, unless the Debtors comply with all applicable

laws and regulations and obtain all necessary governmental approvals.

               17.     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Sale Order, nothing in

this Sale Order constitutes a finding under the federal securities laws as to whether crypto tokens

or transactions involving crypto tokens are securities, and the right of the United States



                                                 19
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-2       Filed 05/31/24     Page 21 of 49




Securities and Exchange Commission to challenge transactions involving crypto tokens on any

basis is expressly reserved.

               18.     The consideration provided by each Purchaser to the Debtors pursuant to

the Purchase and Sale Agreement for the Anthropic Shares constitutes reasonably equivalent

value and fair consideration under the Bankruptcy Code, Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act,

Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act and under the laws of the United States, any state, territory,

possession or the District of Columbia.

               19.     The sale of the Anthropic Shares does not include the sale of any causes of

action held by any of the Debtors against any person or entity, and the sale of the Anthropic Shares

and the Release do not include the sale or release of any causes of action held by any of the Debtors

against Samuel Bankman-Fried, Gary Wang, Nishad Singh, Caroline Ellison or any person known

by the Debtors to have a familial relationship with any of the foregoing persons.

               20.     The Sale Transaction is undertaken by each Purchaser without collusion

and in good faith, within the meaning of section 363(m) of the Bankruptcy Code, and

accordingly, the reversal or modification on appeal of the authorization provided herein to

consummate the Sale Transaction shall not affect the validity of the Sale Transaction unless such

authorization and such Sale Transaction were duly stayed pending such appeal at the time of the

Closing. Each Purchaser is a good faith buyer within the meaning of section 363(m) of the

Bankruptcy Code and, as such, is entitled to the full rights, benefits, privileges and protections of

section 363(m) of the Bankruptcy Code. The Debtors and Purchasers will be acting in good faith

if they proceed to consummate the Sale Transaction at any time after the entry of this Order.

               21.     As a good faith purchaser of the Anthropic Shares, each Purchaser has not

entered into an agreement with any other potential bidders, and has not colluded with any other



                                                 20
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-2      Filed 05/31/24      Page 22 of 49




bidders, potential bidders, or any other parties interested in the Anthropic Shares, and therefore,

neither the Debtors nor any successor-in-interest to the Debtors’ estates shall be entitled to bring

an action against such Purchaser, and the Sale Transaction may not be avoided pursuant to

section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code, and no party shall be entitled to any damages or other

recovery pursuant to section 363(n) in respect of the Purchase and Sale Agreement or Sale

Transaction.

               22.     Nothing contained in any plan of reorganization or liquidation, or order of

any type or kind entered in (a) these Chapter 11 Cases, (b) any subsequent Chapter 7 case into

which these Chapter 11 Cases may be converted or (c) any related proceeding subsequent to

entry of this Sale Order shall conflict with or derogate from the provisions of the Purchase and

Sale Agreement or the terms of this Sale Order. In the event there is a conflict between this Sale

Order and the Purchase and Sale Agreement (or any ancillary agreements executed in connection

therewith), this Sale Order shall control and govern. Likewise, all of the provisions of this Sale

Order are non-severable and mutually dependent. To the extent that this Sale Order is

inconsistent with any prior order or pleading in these Chapter 11 Cases, the terms of this Sale

Order shall control. Except as expressly provided herein, nothing contained in this Sale Order

shall modify, amend or waive any provision of any Company Document.

               23.     [Pursuant to Bankruptcy Rules 7062, 9014 and 6004(h), this Sale Order

shall be effective and enforceable immediately upon entry, the Debtors and Purchasers are

authorized to close the Sale Transaction immediately upon entry of this Sale Order, subject to all

the required governmental approvals having been obtained, and the 14-day stay provided in

Bankruptcy Rule 6004(h) is hereby expressly waived and shall not apply.]




                                                 21
          Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-2       Filed 05/31/24      Page 23 of 49




               24.     The failure specifically to include any particular provision of the Purchase

and Sale Agreement in this Sale Order shall not diminish or impair the effectiveness of such

provision, it being the intent of this Court that the Purchase and Sale Agreement be authorized

and approved in its entirety; provided, however, that this Sale Order shall govern if there is any

inconsistency between the Purchase and Sale Agreement (including all ancillary documents

executed in connection therewith) and this Sale Order.

               25.     The Purchase and Sale Agreement and any related agreements, documents

or other instruments may be modified, amended or supplemented by the parties thereto and in

accordance with the terms thereof, without further order of this Court, with prior written notice

to the Committee, provided that any such modification, amendment or supplement does not have

a material adverse effect on the Debtors’ estates or any of the Debtors’ creditors. If the Purchase

and Sale Agreement is modified, the Debtors shall file the modified version with the Court.

               26.     This Court shall retain jurisdiction to, among other things, interpret,

implement and enforce the terms and provisions of this Sale Order and the Purchase and Sale

Agreement, all amendments thereto and any waivers and consents thereunder and each of the

agreements executed in connection therewith to which the Debtors are a party, and to adjudicate,

if necessary, any and all disputes concerning or relating in any way to the Sale Transaction.

Nothing contained herein shall be deemed a submission by Anthropic to the jurisdiction of the

Bankruptcy Court.

               27.     The Purchase and Sale Agreement shall be in full force and effect,

regardless of any Debtor’s lack of good standing in any jurisdiction in which such Debtor is

formed or authorized to transact business.




                                                 22
          Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-2          Filed 05/31/24   Page 24 of 49




               28.     No bulk sales law, bulk transfer law or any similar law of any state or

other jurisdiction (including those relating to taxes other than Transfer Taxes (as defined in the

Purchase and Sale Agreement)) shall apply to the Debtors’ conveyance of the Anthropic Shares

or this Sale Order. Nothing in this Sale Order establishes a tax exemption under section 1146(a)

of the Bankruptcy Code.

               29.     The appointment of a consumer privacy ombudsman pursuant to section

363(b)(1) or section 332 of the Bankruptcy Code is not required with respect to the Sale

Transaction.

               30.     Each Purchaser is a party-in-interest and shall have the ability to appear

and be heard on all issues related to or otherwise connected to this Sale Order, the Sale

Transaction and any issues related to or otherwise connected to the Purchase and Sale Agreement

and the Sale Transaction.

               31.     Subject to the Release, nothing in this Sale Order shall affect the

obligations, if any, of the Debtors, Purchasers, and/or any transferee or custodian to maintain all

books and records that are subject to any governmental subpoena, document preservation letter,

or other investigative request from a governmental agency.

               32.     Nothing in this Sale Order shall be deemed to waive, release, extinguish or

estop the Debtors or their estates from asserting or otherwise impairing or diminishing any right

(including any right of recoupment), claim, cause of action, defense, offset or counterclaim in

respect of any asset that is not the Anthropic Shares.

               33.     All time periods set forth in this Sale Order shall be calculated in

accordance with Bankruptcy Rule 9006(a).




                                                 23
        Case 22-11068-JTD     Doc 16380-2   Filed 05/31/24   Page 25 of 49




Dated: ___________________
       Wilmington, Delaware                 The Honorable John T. Dorsey
                                            United States Bankruptcy Judge




                                       24
            Case 22-11068-JTD             Doc 16380-2         Filed 05/31/24        Page 26 of 49




                       IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                            FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

In re:                                                        Chapter 11

FTX TRADING LTD., et al.,1                                    Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)

         Debtors.                                             (Jointly Administered)

                                                              Ref. Nos. [●]8215

  ORDER (I) AUTHORIZING AND APPROVING SALE OF EQUITY INTERESTS IN
    ANTHROPIC, PBC SHARES FREE AND CLEAR OF ANY LIENS, CLAIMS,
INTERESTS AND ENCUMBRANCES; (II) AUTHORIZING AND APPROVING ENTRY
                               INTO,
             AND PERFORMANCE UNDER, THE PURCHASE AND
         SALE AGREEMENT; AND (III) GRANTING RELATED RELIEF

                 Upon (i) the motion (the “Motion”)2 of FTX Trading Ltd. and its affiliated debtors

and debtors-in-possession (collectively, the “Debtors”), for entry of an order (this “Sale Order”),

pursuant to sections 105(a) and 363 of title 11 of the United States Code, 11 U.S.C. §§ 101 et

seq. (the “Bankruptcy Code”), rules 2002 and 6004 of the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy

Procedure (the “Bankruptcy Rules”) and rules 2002-1, 6004-1 and 9006-1 of the Local Rules of

Bankruptcy Practice and Procedure of the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of

Delaware (the “Local Rules”), authorizing and approving (a) procedures (the “Sale Procedures”)

for the sale of all or a portion of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock (the “Anthropic Shares”)

held by Debtor Clifton Bay Investments LLC in Anthropic, PBC, a Delaware public benefit




1
    The last four digits of FTX Trading Ltd.’s and Alameda Research LLC’s tax identification number are 3288 and
    4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of the
    Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A complete
    list of such information may be obtained on the website of the Debtors’ claims and noticing agent at
    https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd
    is Unit 3B, Bryson’s Commercial Complex, Friars Hill Road, St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda.
2
    Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein are to be given the meanings ascribed to them in the Motion.
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-2      Filed 05/31/24      Page 27 of 49




corporation, (b) the sale(s) of the Anthropic Shares in accordance with the Sale Procedures free

and clear of any liens, claims, interests and encumbrances, and (c) redaction and filing under seal

of certain confidential commercial information, (ii) this Court’s order approving the Motion

[D.I. [●]8215] (the “Sale Procedures Order”), and (iii) the Purchase and Sale Agreement (the

“Purchase and Sale Agreement”, and the transactions contemplated thereby, the “Sale

Transaction”), dated as of [●]May 31, 2024, a copy of which is attached as [●]Exhibit 3 to the

Sale Disclosures notice in accordance with the Sale Procedures, between Debtor FTX Trading

Ltd., a company established under the laws of Antigua and Barbuda (“Seller”), and [name of

Purchaser[s]] ([“Purchaser”][Clifton Bay Investments LLC (together with the other Debtors,

“Seller”) and the purchasers listed on Schedule A to the Purchase and Sale Agreement (each, a

“Purchaser” and together, “Purchasers”]); and this Court having jurisdiction to consider the

approval of the Purchase and Sale Agreement in accordance with the Sale Procedures pursuant to

28 U.S.C. §§ 157 and 1334 and the Amended Standing Order of Reference from the United

States District Court for the District of Delaware, dated February 29, 2012; and this Court being

able to issue a final order consistent with Article III of the United States Constitution; and venue

of these Chapter 11 Cases and this matter in this district being proper pursuant to 28 U.S.C.

§§ 1408 and 1409; and this matter being a core proceeding pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 157(b); and

this Court having found that notice of the Purchase and Sale Agreement and the relief requested

therein has been provided in accordance with the Sale Procedures, Bankruptcy Rules and the

Local Rules; and that, except as otherwise ordered herein, no other or further notice is necessary;

and objections (if any) to the relief requested having been withdrawn, resolved or overruled on

the merits; and upon the record of all of the proceedings had before this Court; and this Court




                                                 2
            Case 22-11068-JTD             Doc 16380-2          Filed 05/31/24         Page 28 of 49




having found and determined that the legal and factual bases establish just cause for the relief

granted herein; and after due deliberation and sufficient cause appearing therefor,

                 IT IS HEREBY FOUND AND DETERMINED THAT:3

                 A.       Jurisdiction and Venue. This Court has jurisdiction over this matter and

over the property of the Debtors’ estates pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 157 and 1334 and the

Amended Standing Order of Reference from the United States District Court for the District of

Delaware, dated February 29, 2012. This Court may issue a final order consistent with Article III

of the United States Constitution. Venue is proper pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 1408 and 1409.

This matter is a core proceeding pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 157(b).

                 B.       Statutory and Rule Predicates. The statutory and other legal predicates for

the approvals and authorization herein are sections 105(a) and 363 of the Bankruptcy Code,

Bankruptcy Rules 2002, 6004, 9007, 9008 and 9014 and Local Rules 2002-1, 6004-1 and

9006-1.

                 C.       Final Order. This Sale Order constitutes a final order within the meaning

of 28 U.S.C. § 158(a). Notwithstanding Bankruptcy Rule 6004(h), and to the extent necessary

under Bankruptcy Rule 9014 and rule 54(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedures, as made

applicable by Bankruptcy Rule 7054, this Court expressly finds that there is no just reason for

delay in the implementation of this Sale Order, and expressly directs entry of judgment as set

forth herein and authorizes the closing of the Sale Transaction contemplated hereby without

regard to any stay or delay in its implementation.




3
    Findings of fact shall be construed as conclusions of law and conclusions of law shall be construed as findings
    of fact to the fullest extent of the law. See FED. R. BANKR. P. 7052.

                                                         3
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-2      Filed 05/31/24      Page 29 of 49




               D.      Compliance with the Sale Procedures. The Sale Procedures provided a

full, fair and reasonable opportunity for any party to make an offer to purchase the Anthropic

Shares. The disclosures made by the Debtors with respect to the Purchase and Sale Agreement

and the Sale Transaction were good, complete and adequate. The Debtors (including Seller),

Purchaser[s]Purchasers and their respective counsel and other advisors have complied, in good

faith, with the Sale Procedures Order and the Sale Procedures in all respects. Through marketing

efforts and a competitive sale process conducted in accordance with the Sale Procedures, the

Debtors (i) afforded interested potential purchasers a full, fair and reasonable opportunity to

qualify as bidders and submit their highest or otherwise best offer to purchase the Anthropic

Shares, (ii) provided potential purchasers sufficient information to enable them to make an

informed judgment on whether to bid on the Anthropic Shares and (iii) considered any bids

properly submitted in accordance with the Sale Procedures on or before the deadline for bidding.

[Purchaser[s] submitted a qualified bid pursuant to the Sale Procedures approved by this Court

and [was][were] determined to be the Successful Bidder[s] for the Anthropic Shares.]

               E.      No Collusion. [No Purchaser is][Purchaser is not] an “insider” of the

Debtors, as that term is defined in section 101(31) of the Bankruptcy Code. The Purchase and

Sale Agreement and the Sale Transaction were negotiated, proposed and entered into by Seller

and [each] Purchaser without collusion or fraud, in good faith and from arm’s-length bargaining

positions, and are substantively and procedurally fair to all parties. Neither the Debtors nor [any]

Purchaser has engaged in any conduct that would cause or permit the Purchase and Sale

Agreement or the consummation of the Sale Transaction to be avoided, or costs or damages to be

imposed under section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code, and accordingly neither the Debtors nor

[any] Purchaser has violated section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code by any action or inaction.



                                                 4
          Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-2       Filed 05/31/24     Page 30 of 49




Specifically, [no Purchaser has][Purchaser has not] acted in a collusive manner with any person

and the purchase price was not controlled by any agreement among bidders. The Sale

Transaction may not be avoided, and no damages may be assessed against [any] Purchaser or

any other party under section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code or any other applicable bankruptcy

or non-bankruptcy law.

               F.      Good Faith of Purchaser[s]. [Purchasers. Each] Purchaser is purchasing

[its respective portion of] the Anthropic Shares in good faith and for value, and is a good-faith

buyer within the meaning of section 363(m) of the Bankruptcy Code. [Each] Purchaser is

therefore entitled to all of the protections afforded under section 363(m) and any other applicable

or similar bankruptcy or non-bankruptcy law, and otherwise has proceeded in good faith in all

respects in connection with this proceeding in that, inter alia: (a) [each] Purchaser recognized

that the Debtors were free to deal with any other party interested in acquiring the Anthropic

Shares; (b) [each] Purchaser complied with the provisions in the Sale Procedures Order; (c)

[each] Purchaser in no way induced or caused the filing of these Chapter 11 Cases by the

Debtors; (d) all payments to be made, and all other material agreements or arrangements entered

into or to be entered into, by [each] Purchaser in connection with the Sale Transaction have been

disclosed; (e) [no Purchaser has][Purchaser has not] violated section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy

Code by any action or inaction; (f) the negotiation and execution of the Purchase and Sale

Agreement were at arm’s length and in good faith, and at all times [each] Purchaser and Seller

were represented by competent counsel of their choosing; and (g) [no Purchaser has][Purchaser

has not] acted in a collusive manner with any person. [Each] Purchaser will be acting in good

faith within the meaning of section 363(m) in closing the transactions contemplated by the

Purchase and Sale Agreement.



                                                 5
          Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-2       Filed 05/31/24      Page 31 of 49




               G.      Highest and Best Offer. The Debtors and their advisors, including,

without limitation, Perella Weinberg Partners LP, have appropriately marketed the Anthropic

Shares and conducted the related sale process contemplated by the Sale Procedures Order, and a

reasonable opportunity has been given to any interested party to make a higher or better offer for

the Anthropic Shares. No other person or entity or group of entities has offered to purchase the

Anthropic Shares for higher or otherwise better value to the Debtors’ estates than

Purchaser[s]Purchasers. The offer to purchase the Anthropic Shares made by [each] Purchaser,

under the terms and conditions set forth in the Purchase and Sale Agreement: (a) was made in

good faith and complied in all respects with the Sale Procedures Order; (b) is the highest or

otherwise best offer obtained for the Anthropic Shares and will provide a greater recovery for the

Debtors’ estates than would be provided by any other reasonably available alternative; (c) is for

fair, adequate and sufficient consideration that constitutes reasonably equivalent value for the

Anthropic Shares being conveyed to [such] Purchaser; (d) is fair and reasonable; (e) is in the

best interests of the Debtors’ estates; and (f) would not have been made by [such] Purchaser

absent the protections afforded to [such] Purchaser by this Sale Order.

               H.      The Debtors’ determination that the Sale Transaction, pursuant to the

Purchase and Sale Agreement, provides the highest or otherwise best offer for the Anthropic

Shares, and their related decision to sell the Anthropic Shares, constitute a reasonable exercise of

the Debtors’ business judgment. The facts and circumstances demonstrate the Debtors’ business

judgment to sell the Anthropic Shares to Purchaser[s]Purchasers at this time, and the Debtors

have articulated sound business reasons for consummating the Sale Transaction and for selling

the Anthropic Shares outside of a chapter 11 plan. Moreover, the sale of the Anthropic Shares

outside of a chapter 11 plan pursuant to the Purchase and Sale Agreement neither impermissibly



                                                 6
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-2       Filed 05/31/24     Page 32 of 49




restructures the rights of the Debtors’ creditors nor dictates the terms of any chapter 11 plan.

The Sale Transaction does not constitute a sub rosa chapter 11 plan. It is a reasonable exercise

of the Debtors’ business judgment to execute, deliver and consummate the Sale Transaction,

subject to this Sale Order.

               I.      Fair Consideration. The consideration provided by [each] Purchaser

pursuant to the Purchase and Sale Agreement constitutes reasonably equivalent value (as those

terms are defined in each of the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act, Uniform Fraudulent

Conveyance Act and section 548 of the Bankruptcy Code) and fair consideration under the

Bankruptcy Code and under the laws of the United States, any state, territory, possession or the

District of Columbia. [No other Qualified Bidder has offered to purchase the Anthropic Shares

for higher or otherwise better value to the Debtors’ estates than Purchaser(s).]

               J.      No Successor or Other Derivative Liability. As a result of any action

taken in connection with the Sale Transaction, the Purchase and Sale Agreement, or this Sale

Order: (a) [no Purchaser is][Purchaser is not] a successor to or mere continuation of or

substantial continuation of the Debtors or their estates and there is no continuity of enterprise

between any Purchaser and the Debtors; and (b) [no Purchaser shall be][Purchaser shall not be]

deemed to be holding itself out to the public as a continuation of the Debtors based on the Sale

Transaction. [No Purchaser is][Purchaser is not], or shall [not] be, considered a successor in

interest to any of the Debtors or their estates, by reason of any theory of law or equity, and the

Sale Transaction does not amount to a consolidation, succession, merger, or de facto merger of

[any] Purchaser and the Debtors and/or the Debtors’ estates. [No Purchaser would

have][Purchaser would not have] entered into the Purchase and Sale Agreement if the sale of the

Anthropic Shares were not made free and clear of any successor liability of [such] Purchaser.



                                                  7
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-2       Filed 05/31/24      Page 33 of 49




               K.      Corporate Power and Authority. As set forth in section [●]2.1 of the

Purchase and Sale Agreement, Seller (a) has full corporate power and authority to execute and

deliver the Purchase and Sale Agreement and all other documents contemplated thereby, (b) has

all corporate authority necessary to consummate the Sale Transaction, and (c) has taken all

corporate action and formalities necessary to authorize and approve the Purchase and Sale

Agreement and the consummation of the Sale Transaction. Seller’s sale of the Anthropic Shares

has been duly and validly authorized by all necessary corporate action of the Debtors. No

consents or approvals, other than those expressly provided for in the Purchase and Sale

Agreement, are required for Seller to consummate the Sale Transaction.

               L.      The Purchase and Sale Agreement was not entered into for the purpose of

hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors under the Bankruptcy Code or under the laws of the

United States, any state, territory, possession or the District of Columbia. Neither the Debtors

nor [any] Purchaser is entering into the Sale Transaction fraudulently for the purpose of

statutory and common law fraudulent conveyance and fraudulent transfer claims.

               M.      Title to Assets. The transfer of the Debtors’ rights, titles and interests to

the Anthropic Shares to [each] Purchaser will be, as of the Closing Date (as defined in the

Purchase and Sale Agreement), a legal, valid and effective transfer of such rights, titles and

interests in [such][the] Anthropic Shares, which transfer vests or will vest [such] Purchaser

with all rights, titles and interests of the Debtors to [such][the] Anthropic Shares free and clear

of any Liens (as defined below and in the Purchase and Sale Agreement), other than the

permitted encumbrances set forth in the Purchase and Sale Agreement (including restrictions

arising under applicable securities laws or as set forth in the Company Documents or the legends

on certificates of the Anthropic Shares) (such encumbrances, “Permitted Encumbrances”). The



                                                  8
           Case 22-11068-JTD           Doc 16380-2        Filed 05/31/24       Page 34 of 49




Purchase and Sale Agreement is a valid and binding contract between Seller and [each]

Purchaser and shall be enforceable according to its terms.

                N.       Satisfaction of Section 363(f) Standards. The conditions of section 363(f)

of the Bankruptcy Code have been satisfied in full, and upon entry of this Sale Order, the

Debtors are authorized to transfer all of their rights, titles and interests in and to the Anthropic

Shares free and clear of any interest in the property, other than Permitted Encumbrances. The

Debtors may sell the Anthropic Shares free and clear of any liens (statutory or otherwise),

charges, pledges, mortgages, leases, easements, hypothecations, usufructs, deeds of trust,

security interests, options, rights of use, first offer or first refusal, servitudes, restrictive

covenants or conditions, encroachments, claims, interests, restrictions, or any other

encumbrances of any kind (collectively, “Liens”), other than Permitted Encumbrances, against

the Debtors, their estates or the Anthropic Shares because, in each case, one or more of the

standards set forth in section 363(f)(l)-(5) of the Bankruptcy Code has been satisfied. Each

holder with a Lien on the Anthropic Shares to be transferred pursuant to the Purchase and Sale

Agreement: (a) has, subject to the terms and conditions of this Sale Order, consented to the Sale

Transaction or is deemed to have consented; (b) could be compelled in a legal or equitable

proceeding to accept money satisfaction of such Lien; or (c) otherwise falls within one or more

of the other subsections of section 363(f) of the Bankruptcy Code. Holders of Liens against the

Debtors, their estates or the Anthropic Shares who did not object, or who withdrew their

objections, to the Sale Transaction (except with respect to Permitted Encumbrances), are deemed

to have consented pursuant to section 363(f)(2) of the Bankruptcy Code. All other holders of

Liens are adequately protected by having their Liens, if any, in each instance against the Debtors,

their estates or the Anthropic Shares, attach to the net cash proceeds of the Sale Transaction



                                                     9
           Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-2        Filed 05/31/24     Page 35 of 49




ultimately attributable to the Anthropic Shares in which such creditor alleges a Lien, in the same

order of priority, with the same validity, force and effect that such Liens had prior to the Sale

Transaction, subject to any claims and defenses the Debtors and their estates may possess with

respect thereto.

               O.      [No Purchaser would][Purchaser would not] have entered into the

Purchase and Sale Agreement or would consummate the Sale Transaction if the sale of the

Anthropic Shares to [such] Purchaser were not free and clear of any Liens (other than Permitted

Encumbrances), or if [such] Purchaser or any of the [applicable] Purchaser Parties (as defined

in the Purchase and Sale Agreement) would, or in the future could, be liable for any such Lien.

The total consideration to be provided by [each] Purchaser under the Purchase and Sale

Agreement reflects [such] Purchaser’s reliance on this Sale Order to provide it, pursuant to

sections 105(a) and 363 of the Bankruptcy Code, with title to, interest in and possession of the

Anthropic Shares free and clear of any Liens (other than Permitted Encumbrances). Not

transferring the Anthropic Shares free and clear of any Liens (other than Permitted

Encumbrances) would adversely impact the Debtors’ efforts to maximize the value of the estates,

and the transfer of the Anthropic Shares other than pursuant to a transfer that is free and clear of

any Liens (other than Permitted Encumbrances) would be of substantially less benefit to the

Debtors’ estates.

               P.      Release. The entry into a release by Seller on behalf of itself, and on

behalf of its predecessors and successors, past and present agents, representatives, partners,

directors, officers, attorneys, employees, shareholders, affiliates, subsidiaries, heirs, executors,

administrators and assigns, as well as any person acting by, through, under or in concert with any

of the foregoing (collectively, the “Releasors”) in favor of Anthropic, PBC, and its predecessors



                                                  10
           Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-2       Filed 05/31/24      Page 36 of 49




and successors, past and present agents, representatives, partners, directors, officers, attorneys,

employees, shareholders, affiliates, subsidiaries, heirs, executors, administrators and assigns, as

well as any person acting by, through, under or in concert with any of the foregoing,

(collectively, the “Releasees”) in respect of any and all claims, demands, causes of action,

obligations, damages, losses, liabilities, contracts, agreements, promises, debts, costs and

expenses of any kind whatsoever, whether at law or in equity, asserted or unasserted, known or

unknown, suspected or unsuspected, fixed or contingent (collectively, “Claims”), which such

party ever had, now has, or may claim to have against Anthropic, PBC, arising from the Sale

Transaction, but excluding any other Claims that the Releasors may have against Anthropic,

PBC, including (a) any Claims arising out of Seller’s acquisition or ownership of the Anthropic

Shares, (b) any Claims arising in any Releasor’s capacity as a shareholder of Anthropic, PBC and

unrelated to the Sale Transaction and (c) any claims arising after the date the Sale Transaction is

consummated (such release, the “Release”) is approved in full. Anthropic, PBC would not have

consented to the Sale Transaction in the absence of such releases, and therefore the releases are

supported by adequate consideration and are reasonable. See Mendelsohn Declaration ¶ 21.

               Q.      P. [Waiver of Bankruptcy Rule 6004(h). Good and sufficient reasons for

approval of the Purchase and Sale Agreement and the Sale Transaction have been articulated.

The Debtors have demonstrated both (a) good, sufficient and sound business purposes and

justifications and (b) compelling circumstances for the Sale Transaction other than in the

ordinary course of business, pursuant to section 363(b) of the Bankruptcy Code before, and

outside of, a chapter 11 plan, in that, among other things, the immediate consummation of the

Sale Transaction is necessary and appropriate to maximize the value of the Debtors’ estates and

progress these Chapter 11 Cases. Accordingly, there is cause to waive or lift the stay



                                                 11
               Case 22-11068-JTD              Doc 16380-2        Filed 05/31/24   Page 37 of 49




contemplated by Bankruptcy Rule 6004(h) with respect to the Sale Transaction. To maximize

the value of the Anthropic Shares, it is essential that the Sale Transaction occur within the time

constraints set forth in the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Time is of the essence in

consummating the Sale Transaction and the Debtors and Purchaser[s]Purchasers intend to close

the Sale Transaction as soon as practicable. Given all of the circumstances of these Chapter 11

Cases and the adequacy and fair value of the Aggregate Purchase Price[s]Prices under the

Purchase and Sale Agreement, the proposed Sale Transaction should be approved.]4

                    R.        Q. The consummation of the Sale Transaction is legal, valid and properly

authorized under all applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, including, without limitation,

sections 105(a), 363(b), 363(f) and 363(m), and all of the applicable requirements of such

sections have been complied with in respect of the transaction.

                    S.        R. Personally Identifiable Information. The Sale Transaction does not

involve the sale of any personally identifiable information. Thus, the appointment of a consumer

privacy ombudsman pursuant to section 363(b)(1) or section 332 of the Bankruptcy Code is not

required with respect to the Sale Transaction.

                    T.        S. Legal and Factual Bases. The legal and factual bases establish just

cause for the relief granted herein. Entry of this Sale Order is in the best interests of the Debtors

and their estates.




4
    Only to be included in the event no objections are filed.


                                                            12
            Case 22-11068-JTD        Doc 16380-2       Filed 05/31/24     Page 38 of 49




               IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT:

A.      General Provisions

               1.      The sale of the Anthropic Shares and the other relief requested is granted

as set forth herein, and the Purchase and Sale Agreement and the provisions thereof and the Sale

Transaction are approved in their entirety as set forth herein.

               2.      All objections, responses, reservations of rights and requests for any

continuances concerning the Sale Transaction are resolved in accordance with the terms of this

Sale Order. To the extent any such objections, responses, reservations of rights or requests for

any continuances were not otherwise withdrawn, waived, settled, or resolved, such are hereby

overruled and denied on the merits. All interested parties that failed to timely object to the Sale

Transaction are deemed to have consented to the relief granted herein for all purposes, including,

without limitation, pursuant to section 363(f)(2) of the Bankruptcy Code.

               3.      Notice of the Purchase and Sale Agreement and the sale of the Anthropic

Shares free and clear of any Liens, except Permitted Encumbrances, was fair, equitable, proper,

and sufficient under the circumstances and complied in all respects with the Sale Procedures and

the Sale Procedures Order.

B.      Approval of the Purchase and Sale Agreement

               4.      The Purchase and Sale Agreement and all of the terms and conditions

thereof are hereby authorized and approved in all respects. The failure to specifically include or

make reference to any particular provision of the Purchase and Sale Agreement in this Sale

Order shall not impair the effectiveness of such provision, it being the intent of this Court that

the Purchase and Sale Agreement and the Sale Transaction are authorized and approved in their

entirety.



                                                 13
             Case 22-11068-JTD       Doc 16380-2        Filed 05/31/24     Page 39 of 49




                5.     Pursuant to sections 363(b) and (f) of the Bankruptcy Code, the Debtors

are authorized and empowered to take any and all actions necessary or appropriate to

(a) consummate the Sale Transaction to Purchaser[s]Purchasers in accordance with the terms and

conditions of the Purchase and Sale Agreement, (b) close the Sale Transaction as contemplated

in the Purchase and Sale Agreement and this Sale Order, and (c) execute and deliver, perform

under, consummate and implement the Purchase and Sale Agreement, together with all

additional instruments and documents that may be reasonably necessary or desirable to

implement the Purchase and Sale Agreement and the Sale Transaction. [No Purchaser

shall][Purchaser shall not] be required to seek or obtain relief from the automatic stay under

section 362 of the Bankruptcy Code to enforce any of its remedies under the Purchase and Sale

Agreement or any other sale-related document. The automatic stay imposed by section 362 of

the Bankruptcy Code is modified solely to the extent necessary to implement the preceding

sentence and the other provisions of this Sale Order; provided, however, that this Court shall

retain exclusive jurisdiction over any and all disputes with respect thereto.

                6.     This Sale Order shall be binding in all respects upon the Debtors, their

estates, all creditors of and holders of equity interests in, the Debtors, any holders of Liens in,

against or on all or any portion of the Anthropic Shares (whether known or unknown),

Purchaser[s]Purchasers and all successors and assigns of Purchaser[s]Purchasers, the Anthropic

Shares and any trustees, if any, subsequently appointed in these Chapter 11 Cases or upon a

conversion to Chapter 7 under the Bankruptcy Code of these Chapter 11 Cases. This Sale Order

and the Purchase and Sale Agreement shall inure to the benefit of the Debtors, their estates and

creditors, Purchaser[s]Purchasers and the respective successors and assigns of each of the

foregoing.



                                                  14
           Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-2       Filed 05/31/24      Page 40 of 49




C.      Consummation of the Sale Transaction

                7.      Pursuant to sections 363(b) and 363(f) of the Bankruptcy Code, the

Debtors are authorized to transfer all of their rights, titles and interests to [each] Purchaser’s

[respective] Anthropic Shares to [such] Purchaser on the Closing Date and such transfer shall

constitute a legal, valid, binding and effective transfer of such rights, titles and interests in [such]

Anthropic Shares and shall vest [such] Purchaser with all of the Debtors’ rights, titles and

interests in [such] Anthropic Shares and, upon the Debtors’ receipt of the [applicable]

Aggregate Purchase Price, shall be free and clear of any Liens, including but not limited to,

successor or successor-in-interest liability or, any tax liens or mechanic’s liens asserted against

such Anthropic Shares, except Permitted Encumbrances, with any Liens to attach to the net cash

proceeds ultimately attributable to the property against or in which such Liens are asserted,

subject to the terms thereof, with the same validity, force and effect, and in the same order of

priority, which such Liens now have against such Anthropic Shares, subject to any rights, claims

and defenses the Debtors or their estates, as applicable, may possess with respect thereto. The

provisions of this Sale Order authorizing and approving the transfer of the Anthropic Shares free

and clear of any Liens (other than Permitted Encumbrances) shall be self-executing, and neither

the Debtors nor [any] Purchaser shall be required to execute or file releases, termination

statements, assignments, consents, or other instruments in order to effectuate, consummate, and

implement the provisions of this Sale Order. The Release is approved in full.

                8.      A certified copy of this Sale Order may be filed with the appropriate clerk

and/or recorded with the recorder to act to cancel any Liens and other encumbrances of record

except Permitted Encumbrances.




                                                   15
           Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-2        Filed 05/31/24      Page 41 of 49




                9.      If any person or entity which has filed statements or other documents or

agreements evidencing Liens in, against or on all or any portion of the Anthropic Shares shall not

have delivered to the Debtors prior to the Closing, in proper form for filing and executed by the

appropriate parties, termination statements, instruments of satisfaction, releases of Liens and any

other documents necessary for the purpose of documenting the release of any Liens which the

person or entity has or may assert with respect to all or any portion of the Anthropic Shares, the

Debtors, Purchaser[s]Purchasers and each of their respective officers, employees and agents are

hereby authorized and empowered to execute and file such statements, instruments, releases and

other documents on behalf of such person or entity with respect to the Anthropic Shares.

                10.     This Sale Order is and shall be effective as a determination that, on the

Closing Date, any Liens existing as to the Anthropic Shares prior to the Closing Date, except

Permitted Encumbrances, shall have been unconditionally released, discharged and terminated

from the Anthropic Shares, and that the conveyances described herein have been effected. This

Sale Order is and shall be binding upon and govern the acts of all persons and entities, including,

without limitation, all filing agents, filing officers, title agents, title companies, recorders of

mortgages, recorders of deeds, registrars of deeds, administrative agencies, governmental

departments, secretaries of state, federal, state and local officials and all other persons and

entities who may be required by operation of law, the duties of their office, or contract, to accept,

file, register or otherwise record or release any documents or instruments, or who may be

required to report or insure any title or state of title in or to any lease; and each of the foregoing

persons and entities is hereby directed to accept for filing any and all of the documents and

instruments necessary and appropriate to consummate the Sale Transaction.




                                                   16
           Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-2       Filed 05/31/24     Page 42 of 49




D.     Prohibition of Actions Against Purchaser[s]Purchasers

               11.     Except as expressly provided for in this Sale Order or the Purchase and

Sale Agreement, [no Purchaser shall][Purchaser shall not] have any liability or other obligation

or responsibility of the Debtors arising under or related to [its respective][the] Anthropic Shares

prior to the Closing. [No Purchaser is][Purchaser is not] a “successor” to the Debtors or their

estates by reason of any theory of law or equity. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,

and except as otherwise specifically provided herein or in the Purchase and Sale Agreement, [no

Purchaser shall be][Purchaser shall not be] liable for any claims against the Debtors or any of

itstheir predecessors or affiliates, and [no Purchaser shall][Purchaser shall not] have any

successor or vicarious liabilities of any kind or character, including, but not limited to, under any

theory of antitrust, environmental (subject to paragraph 15 below), successor or transferee

liability, securities law, tax law, labor law, de facto merger, mere continuation or substantial

continuity, whether known or unknown as of the Closing Date, now existing or hereafter arising,

whether fixed or contingent, whether asserted or unasserted, whether legal or equitable, whether

liquidated or unliquidated, including, but not limited to, liabilities on account of warranties,

environmental liabilities (subject to paragraph 15 below), and any taxes arising, accruing or

payable under, out of, in connection with, or in any way relating to any of [such] Purchaser’s

respective Anthropic Shares prior to the Closing. The Sale Transaction does not amount to a

consolidation, merger or de facto merger of any Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors, the

Debtors’ affiliates and/or the Debtors’ estates, on the other hand, and there is not substantial

continuity between [any] Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors or their affiliates, on the

other hand, and [no Purchaser is][Purchaser is not] a mere continuation of the Debtors or their

estates, and [no Purchaser constitutes][Purchaser does not constitute] a successor to the Debtors



                                                 17
           Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-2        Filed 05/31/24     Page 43 of 49




or their estates. For purposes of paragraphs 11 to 14 of this Sale Order, all references to [a]

Purchaser shall include its respective Purchaser Parties.

               12.     Except as expressly otherwise set forth in the Purchase and Sale

Agreement and this Sale Order, all persons and entities, including, but not limited to, all debt

security holders, equity security holders, governmental, tax and regulatory authorities, lenders,

trade creditors, dealers, employees, litigation claimants and other creditors, holding Liens against

or in all or any portion of the Anthropic Shares (whether legal or equitable, secured or unsecured,

matured or unmatured, contingent or non-contingent, liquidated or unliquidated, senior or

subordinate), arising under or out of, in connection with, or in any way relating to the Debtors or

the Anthropic Shares prior to the Closing Date or the Sale Transaction, including the transfer of

the Anthropic Shares to Purchaser[s]Purchasers, hereby are forever barred, estopped and

permanently enjoined from asserting against [any] Purchaser, its Affiliates, its successors or

assigns, their property or the Anthropic Shares, such persons’ or entities’ Liens with respect to

the Anthropic Shares, including, without limitation, the following actions: (a) commencing or

continuing in any manner any action or other proceeding against [any] Purchaser, its Affiliates,

its successors, assets or properties; (b) enforcing, attaching, collecting or recovering in any

manner any judgment, award, decree or order against [any] Purchaser, its Affiliates, its

successors, assets or properties; (c) creating, perfecting or enforcing any Liens against [any]

Purchaser, its Affiliates, its successors, assets or properties; (d) asserting any unexercised set-off

or right of subrogation against any obligation due with respect to [any] Purchaser, its Affiliates

or its successors; (e) commencing or continuing any action, in any manner or place, that does not

comply or is inconsistent with the provisions of this Sale Order, or the agreements or actions

contemplated or taken in respect thereof or (f) to the extent provided in section 525 of the



                                                  18
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-2      Filed 05/31/24      Page 44 of 49




Bankruptcy Code, revoking, terminating or failing or refusing to transfer or renew any license,

permit or authorization to operate the businesses of Anthropic, subject to paragraph 16 below.

On the Closing Date, each creditor is authorized and directed to execute such documents and

take all other actions as may be necessary to release Liens in or on the Anthropic Shares (except

Permitted Encumbrances), if any, as provided for herein, as such Liens may have been recorded

or may otherwise exist.

               13.     All persons and entities are hereby forever prohibited and enjoined from

taking any action that would adversely affect or interfere (a) with the ability of the Debtors

and/or Seller to sell and transfer the Anthropic Shares to [any] Purchaser in accordance with the

terms of the Purchase and Sale Agreement and this Sale Order, and (b) with the ability of [any]

Purchaser to acquire and take possession of the Anthropic Shares in accordance with the terms of

the Purchase and Sale Agreement and this Sale Order.

               14.     [Each] Purchaser has given substantial consideration under the Purchase

and Sale Agreement for the benefit of the Debtors and their estates. The consideration given by

[each] Purchaser shall constitute valid and valuable consideration for the sale being free and

clear of any potential liens, claims, interests, and encumbrances, including any Liens, as to the

Anthropic Shares pursuant to this Sale Order, except with respect to the Permitted

Encumbrances, and free and clear of any potential claims of successor liability against [such]

Purchaser. The consideration provided by [each] PurchaserPurchasers for the Anthropic Shares

under the Purchase and Sale Agreement is fair and reasonable and may not be avoided under

section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code.




                                                 19
           Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-2       Filed 05/31/24     Page 45 of 49




E.       Other Provisions

               15.     Nothing in this Sale Order or the Purchase and Sale Agreement releases,

nullifies, precludes or enjoins the enforcement of any police or regulatory liability to a

governmental unit that any entity would be subject to as the post-sale owner or operator of

property after the date of entry of this Sale Order. In addition, nothing in this Sale Order divests

any tribunal of any jurisdiction it may have under police or regulatory law, including the

jurisdiction to interpret this Sale Order or to adjudicate any defense asserted under this Sale

Order.

               16.     Further, nothing in this Sale Order or Purchase and Sale Agreement

authorizes the transfer or assignment of any governmental license, permit, registration,

authorization or approval, or the discontinuation of any obligation thereunder, without

compliance with all applicable legal requirements and approvals under police or regulatory law

as appropriate. Nothing in this Sale Order authorizes any sale or transfer of the Anthropic

Shares, or permits the Sale Transaction to close, unless the Debtors comply with all applicable

laws and regulations and obtain all necessary governmental approvals.

               17.     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Sale Order, nothing in

this Sale Order constitutes a finding under the federal securities laws as to whether crypto tokens

or transactions involving crypto tokens are securities, and the right of the United States

Securities and Exchange Commission to challenge transactions involving crypto tokens on any

basis is expressly reserved.

               18.     The consideration provided by [each] Purchaser to the Debtors pursuant

to the Purchase and Sale Agreement for the Anthropic Shares constitutes reasonably equivalent

value and fair consideration under the Bankruptcy Code, Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act,



                                                 20
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-2       Filed 05/31/24     Page 46 of 49




Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act and under the laws of the United States, any state, territory,

possession or the District of Columbia.

               19.     The sale of the Anthropic Shares does not include the sale of any causes of

action held by any of the Debtors against any person or entity, and the sale of the Anthropic

Shares and the Release do not include the sale or release of any causes of action held by any of

the Debtors against any person or entity, including but not limited to causes of action against

Samuel Bankman-Fried, Gary Wang, Nishad Singh, Caroline Ellison or any person known by the

Debtors to have a familial relationship with any of the foregoing persons.

               20.     The Sale Transaction is undertaken by [each] Purchaser without collusion

and in good faith, within the meaning of section 363(m) of the Bankruptcy Code, and

accordingly, the reversal or modification on appeal of the authorization provided herein to

consummate the Sale Transaction shall not affect the validity of the Sale Transaction unless such

authorization and such Sale Transaction were duly stayed pending such appeal at the time of the

Closing. [Each] Purchaser is a good faith buyer within the meaning of section 363(m) of the

Bankruptcy Code and, as such, is entitled to the full rights, benefits, privileges and protections of

section 363(m) of the Bankruptcy Code. The Debtors and Purchaser[s]Purchasers will be acting

in good faith if they proceed to consummate the Sale Transaction at any time after the entry of

this Order.

               21.     As a good faith purchaser of the Anthropic Shares, [each] Purchaser has

not entered into an agreement with any other potential bidders, and has not colluded with any

other bidders, potential bidders, or any other parties interested in the Anthropic Shares, and

therefore, neither the Debtors nor any successor-in-interest to the Debtors’ estates shall be

entitled to bring an action against [such] Purchaser, and the Sale Transaction may not be



                                                 21
               Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-2       Filed 05/31/24     Page 47 of 49




avoided pursuant to section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code, and no party shall be entitled to any

damages or other recovery pursuant to section 363(n) in respect of the Purchase and Sale

Agreement or Sale Transaction.

                  22.       Nothing contained in any plan of reorganization or liquidation, or order of

any type or kind entered in (a) these Chapter 11 Cases, (b) any subsequent Chapter 7 case into

which these Chapter 11 Cases may be converted or (c) any related proceeding subsequent to

entry of this Sale Order shall conflict with or derogate from the provisions of the Purchase and

Sale Agreement or the terms of this Sale Order. In the event there is a conflict between this Sale

Order and the Purchase and Sale Agreement (or any ancillary agreements executed in connection

therewith), this Sale Order shall control and govern. Likewise, all of the provisions of this Sale

Order are non-severable and mutually dependent. To the extent that this Sale Order is

inconsistent with any prior order or pleading in these Chapter 11 Cases, the terms of this Sale

Order shall control. Except as expressly provided herein, nothing contained in this Sale Order

shall modify, amend or waive any provision of any Company Document.

                  23.       [Pursuant to Bankruptcy Rules 7062, 9014 and 6004(h), this Sale Order

shall     be    effective    and    enforceable    immediately    upon    entry,   the   Debtors    and

Purchaser[s]Purchasers are authorized to close the Sale Transaction immediately upon entry of

this Sale Order, subject to all the required governmental approvals having been obtained, and the

14-day stay provided in Bankruptcy Rule 6004(h) is hereby expressly waived and shall not

apply.]

                  24.       The failure specifically to include any particular provision of the Purchase

and Sale Agreement in this Sale Order shall not diminish or impair the effectiveness of such

provision, it being the intent of this Court that the Purchase and Sale Agreement be authorized



                                                     22
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-2      Filed 05/31/24      Page 48 of 49




and approved in its entirety; provided, however, that this Sale Order shall govern if there is any

inconsistency between the Purchase and Sale Agreement (including all ancillary documents

executed in connection therewith) and this Sale Order.

               25.     The Purchase and Sale Agreement and any related agreements, documents

or other instruments may be modified, amended or supplemented by the parties thereto and in

accordance with the terms thereof, without further order of this Court, with prior written notice

to the Committee, provided that any such modification, amendment or supplement does not have

a material adverse effect on the Debtors’ estates or any of the Debtors’ creditors. If the Purchase

and Sale Agreement is modified, the Debtors shall file the modified version with the Court.

               26.     This Court shall retain jurisdiction to, among other things, interpret,

implement and enforce the terms and provisions of this Sale Order and the Purchase and Sale

Agreement, all amendments thereto and any waivers and consents thereunder and each of the

agreements executed in connection therewith to which the Debtors are a party, and to adjudicate,

if necessary, any and all disputes concerning or relating in any way to the Sale Transaction.

Nothing contained herein shall be deemed a submission by Anthropic to the jurisdiction of the

Bankruptcy Court.

               27.     The Purchase and Sale Agreement shall be in full force and effect,

regardless of any Debtor’s lack of good standing in any jurisdiction in which such Debtor is

formed or authorized to transact business.

               28.     No bulk sales law, bulk transfer law or any similar law of any state or

other jurisdiction (including those relating to taxes other than Transfer Taxes (as defined in the

Purchase and Sale Agreement)) shall apply to the Debtors’ conveyance of the Anthropic Shares




                                                 23
          Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-2          Filed 05/31/24   Page 49 of 49




or this Sale Order. Nothing in this Sale Order establishes a tax exemption under section 1146(a)

of the Bankruptcy Code.

               29.     The appointment of a consumer privacy ombudsman pursuant to section

363(b)(1) or section 332 of the Bankruptcy Code is not required with respect to the Sale

Transaction.

               30.     [Each] Purchaser is a party-in-interest and shall have the ability to appear

and be heard on all issues related to or otherwise connected to this Sale Order, the Sale

Transaction and any issues related to or otherwise connected to the Purchase and Sale

Agreement and the Sale Transaction.

               31.     NothingSubject to the Release, nothing in this Sale Order shall affect the

obligations, if any, of the Debtors, Purchaser[s]Purchasers, and/or any transferee or custodian to

maintain all books and records that are subject to any governmental subpoena, document

preservation letter, or other investigative request from a governmental agency.

               32.     Nothing in this Sale Order shall be deemed to waive, release, extinguish or

estop the Debtors or their estates from asserting or otherwise impairing or diminishing any right

(including any right of recoupment), claim, cause of action, defense, offset or counterclaim in

respect of any asset that is not the Anthropic Shares.

               33.     All time periods set forth in this Sale Order shall be calculated in

accordance with Bankruptcy Rule 9006(a).


 Dated: ___________________
        Wilmington, Delaware                             The Honorable John T. Dorsey
                                                         United States Bankruptcy Judge




                                                 24
Case 22-11068-JTD   Doc 16380-3   Filed 05/31/24   Page 1 of 48




                         Exhibit 3

            Executed Purchase and Sale Agreement
              Case 22-11068-JTD   Doc 16380-3     Filed 05/31/24   Page 2 of 48

                                                                   EXECUTION VERSION
                                                                        CONFIDENTIAL




                         PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT

                                       by and among

                          CLIFTON BAY INVESTMENTS LLC

                                            and

                      THE PURCHASERS LISTED ON SCHEDULE A


                                  Dated as of May 31, 2024




4882-2525-3982 v.8
              Case 22-11068-JTD       Doc 16380-3        Filed 05/31/24     Page 3 of 48




        This PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT (including the Exhibits and Schedules
hereto, each as amended or restated from time to time, this “Agreement”), dated as of May 31,
2024, is made by and between Clifton Bay Investments LLC (formerly known as Alameda
Research Ventures LLC), a Delaware limited liability company (“Seller”), and the purchasers
listed on Schedule A (each a “Purchaser” and together, “Purchasers”). The signatories to this
Agreement are collectively referred to as the “Parties” and individually as a “Party”.

                                              Recitals

        WHEREAS, on November 11, 2022 and November 14, 2022, Seller and certain of its
Affiliates (collectively, the “Debtors”) commenced voluntary proceedings under Chapter 11 of
Title 11 of the United States Code (11 U.S.C. §§ 101, et seq., as amended, the “Bankruptcy
Code”) by filing petitions for relief in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of
Delaware (the “Bankruptcy Court”), which cases are being jointly administered for procedural
purposes as In re FTX Trading Ltd., et al. (Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)) (the “Bankruptcy
Proceeding”);

        WHEREAS, on February 29, 2024, the Bankruptcy Court entered the Sale Procedures
Order authorizing and approving, among other things, (a) the Sale Procedures (as defined in the
Sale Procedures Order) for the sale or transfer of all or a portion of the Interests and (b) the
sale(s) of the Interests in accordance with the Sale Procedures free and clear of any liens, claims,
interests and encumbrances (other than Permitted Encumbrances);

        WHEREAS, Seller holds the interests set forth on Schedule A (the “Interests”) in or with
the entity set forth on Schedule B (the “Subject Company”) and desires to sell, assign and
transfer to each Purchaser such amount of Interests as is set forth opposite such Purchaser’s
name on Schedule A pursuant to section 363 of the Bankruptcy Code, in accordance with the
applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Code and the Bankruptcy Rules, all upon the terms and
subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement;

       WHEREAS, the board of directors or other applicable governing body of Seller has
determined that it is advisable and in the best interests of Seller’s estate and the beneficiaries of
such estate to consummate the Transactions pursuant to the Sale Procedures and Sale Order and
has approved this Agreement;

       WHEREAS, Seller intends to seek the entry of the Sale Order by the Bankruptcy Court
approving this Agreement and authorizing Seller to consummate the Transactions upon the terms
and subject to the conditions set forth herein and in the Sale Order;

       WHEREAS, each Purchaser desires to purchase the Interests set forth opposite such
Purchaser’s name on Schedule A pursuant to section 363 of the Bankruptcy Code; and

         WHEREAS, the Parties acknowledge and agree that the Transactions are being made at
arm’s length and in good faith and without intent to hinder, delay or defraud creditors of Seller or
its Affiliates and Seller acknowledges that the consideration to be paid is fair value and
reasonably equivalent value for the purchases by Purchasers.




4882-2525-3982 v.8
              Case 22-11068-JTD      Doc 16380-3       Filed 05/31/24     Page 4 of 48




       NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the mutual representations,
warranties, covenants and agreements contained herein, and for other good and valuable
consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as
follows:



                          PURCHASE AND SALE OF INTERESTS

         1.1     Purchase and Sale of Interests. Pursuant to sections 105 and 363 of the
Bankruptcy Code and upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, at
the applicable Closing, Seller agrees to sell, assign, convey, transfer and deliver to each
Purchaser, and each such Purchaser agrees to purchase and accept from Seller, all of Seller’s
right, title and interest in, to and under the Interests set forth opposite such Purchaser’s name on
Schedule A, as may be updated from time to time prior to the applicable Closing, for an amount
in cash calculated pursuant to Section 1.2, which purchase shall be free and clear of any Liens
other than Permitted Encumbrances.

        1.2     Purchase Price. The aggregate purchase price for each Purchaser’s respective
Interests shall be an amount in cash equal to the number of such Interests set forth on
Schedule A, as may be updated from time to time prior to the applicable Closing pursuant to this
Agreement, multiplied by the applicable Per Share Price set forth on Schedule A (each such
aggregate purchase price, an “Aggregate Purchase Price”), which shall be payable without any
withholding or deduction.

        1.3     Liabilities. From and after the applicable Closing Date, and upon the terms and
subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Transfer Documents, any liabilities
for Taxes, fees or other governmental charges attributable to the Interests or the ownership of
such Interests by the applicable Purchaser shall be the responsibility of such Purchaser.

       1.4     Closing. The closing of the Transactions in respect of a Purchaser (each such
Closing, a “Closing”) will take place at 9:00 a.m., Eastern Time, at the offices of Sullivan &
Cromwell LLP, 125 Broad Street, New York, NY 10004 or remotely via electronic exchange of
documents and signatures on the second (2nd) Business Day following the date on which all of
the conditions to closing specified in Article 5 are satisfied or waived in respect of such
Purchaser, or at such other time as such Purchaser and Seller shall agree in writing (each, a
“Closing Date”).

       1.5      Deliveries at Closing. At each Closing, upon satisfaction or waiver of the
conditions set forth in Article 5 hereof:

                (a)     the applicable Purchaser shall pay its respective Aggregate Purchase Price
to Seller in accordance with Section 1.2 by wire transfer of immediately available funds pursuant
to the instructions delivered by Seller to such Purchaser prior to the applicable Closing Date;

             (b)     the applicable Purchaser shall deliver to Seller a counterpart to the
Transfer Documents, duly executed by such Purchaser or its applicable Affiliates party thereto;

                                                 2

4882-2525-3982 v.8
              Case 22-11068-JTD       Doc 16380-3       Filed 05/31/24      Page 5 of 48




             (c)     Seller shall deliver to the applicable Purchaser a counterpart to the
Transfer Documents, duly executed by Seller or its applicable Affiliates party thereto; and

                (d)     Seller shall deliver to the applicable Purchaser, and such Purchaser shall
deliver to Seller, each of the other documents and instruments required to be delivered pursuant
to the terms of this Agreement or any Transfer Documents.



                          REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

       2.1    Representations and Warranties of Seller. Seller hereby represents and warrants to
each Purchaser that:

                (a)    Authorization. Seller is an entity duly organized and validly existing in
good standing under the laws of Delaware. Subject to compliance with the Sale Procedures, entry
of the Sale Order and any other Order entered by the Bankruptcy Court applicable to the
Transactions, Seller has the requisite power and authority to enter into, execute and deliver this
Agreement and the Transfer Documents to which Seller is a party and to perform all of the
obligations to be performed by it hereunder and thereunder. Subject to compliance with the Sale
Procedures, entry of the Sale Order and any other Order entered by the Bankruptcy Court
applicable to the Transactions, this Agreement and the Transfer Documents to which it is a party
have been or, when executed, will be duly authorized, executed and delivered by it, and
constitute or, when executed, will constitute a valid and binding obligation of Seller, enforceable
against it in accordance with its terms.

                 (b)    Title to Interests. Seller owns all right, title and interest in and to the
Interests, free and clear of all Liens other than Permitted Encumbrances and Liens created by or
through a Purchaser or any of its Affiliates.

                 (c)    No Conflicts. Subject to compliance with the Sale Procedures, entry of the
Sale Order and any other Order entered by the Bankruptcy Court applicable to the Transactions,
the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the Transfer Documents to which Seller is a
party and the performance or consummation of the Transactions by Seller do not conflict with,
result in a breach or violation of, or result in the creation of a Lien on any of the Interests owned
by Seller under the terms or provisions of (i) its organizational documents, (ii) any contract that
is material to the value of the Interests, or (iii) any statute or any order, rule or regulation of any
court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over it or its property, except, in each
case, for such conflicts, violations, defaults and accelerations that would not, individually or in
the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.

              (d)     Certain Conduct. Seller has not (i) sold, assigned, transferred, delivered or
otherwise disposed of all or any portion of the Interests held by Seller, (ii) converted, exchanged
or redeemed all or any portion of the Interests, or (iii) agreed to do any of the foregoing.

               (e)     Broker’s Fee; No Public Offering. No Person acting on behalf of Seller or
under the authority of Seller shall be entitled to any broker’s, finder’s, or similar fee or

                                                   3

4882-2525-3982 v.8
              Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-3     Filed 05/31/24     Page 6 of 48




commission in connection with the Transactions, other than the financial advisors retained by
Seller in the Bankruptcy Proceeding.

                 (f)     No Other Representations or Warranties. Except for the representations
and warranties contained in this Section 2.1, neither Seller nor any other Person (other than
Purchasers) has made any other express or implied representation or warranty with respect to, or
otherwise in connection with, the Interests, Seller, the Subject Company, Purchasers or any of
their respective businesses, operations, assets, liabilities, conditions (financial or otherwise) or
prospects in connection with this Agreement or the Transactions, and Seller disclaims any other
representations or warranties, whether made by Seller, any Affiliate of Seller or any of Seller’s
or its Affiliates’ respective representatives or the Subject Company.

      2.2      Representations and Warranties of Purchasers. Each Purchaser hereby represents
and warrants to Seller that:

                (a)    Authorization. Such Purchaser is an entity duly organized or formed and
validly existing in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization. Such
Purchaser has the requisite power and authority to enter into, execute and deliver this Agreement
and the Transfer Documents and to perform all of the obligations to be performed by it hereunder
and thereunder. This Agreement and the Transfer Documents to which such Purchaser is a party
have been or, when executed, will be duly authorized, executed and delivered by such Purchaser,
and constitute or when executed, will constitute a valid and binding obligation of such Purchaser,
enforceable against such Purchaser in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable
bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization and moratorium laws and other Laws of general
application affecting enforcement of creditors’ rights generally.

                 (b)     No Conflicts. The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the
Transfer Documents to which such Purchaser is a party and the performance or consummation of
the Transactions by such Purchaser do not (i) conflict with or result in a breach or violation of
the terms or provisions of its organizational documents, (ii) result in the breach or violation of
any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, or accelerate the performance
required by the terms of any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or any other
agreement or instrument to which such Purchaser is a party or by which such Purchaser is bound
or (iii) conflict with or result in a breach or violation of the terms or provisions of any statute or
any order, rule or regulation of any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction
over such Purchaser or its property, except, in each case, to the extent that such conflicts,
violations, defaults or accelerations would not, individually or in the aggregate, materially
hinder, delay or impair the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and the Transfer
Documents. The execution and delivery by such Purchaser of this Agreement and the Transfer
Documents to which it is a party and the performance by such Purchaser of its obligations
hereunder and thereunder and the consummation of the Transactions contemplated hereby and
thereby will not require any registration, filing, consent or approval under any Law, rule,
regulation, judgment, order, writ, decree, permit or license, or any consent or approval of any
other party to such Purchaser’s constituent documents, or any other contract, agreement,
instrument, commitment or restriction binding upon such Purchaser, except for the Sale Order.

                     (c)   Independent Appraisal.

                                                    4

4882-2525-3982 v.8
              Case 22-11068-JTD      Doc 16380-3       Filed 05/31/24    Page 7 of 48




                         (i)     Such Purchaser acknowledges that Seller may be in possession of
         material, nonpublic information relating to the Subject Company. Such Purchaser further
         acknowledges and agrees that Seller has no obligation to disclose to such Purchaser any
         such material, nonpublic information except as may be required for a representation and
         warranty of Seller hereunder to be accurate and correct. Such Purchaser further
         acknowledges that (A) it is not relying on there having been disclosed any such material
         or potentially material information which is not disclosed, and (B) any such information
         may be materially adverse to such Purchaser’s interests. Such Purchaser further
         acknowledges that it is prepared to purchase the applicable Interests from Seller on the
         foregoing basis and hereby waives any right to rescind or invalidate the purchase of the
         applicable Interests from Seller or to seek any damages or other remuneration from Seller
         based on the possession of any such material, nonpublic information by Seller.

                         (ii)      Such Purchaser acknowledges that it is experienced and
         sophisticated with respect to transactions of the type contemplated by this Agreement,
         and that in consultation with experienced counsel and advisors of its choice, it has made
         its own due diligence analysis, credit analysis and decision to buy the applicable
         Interests, and that it is responsible for making its own evaluation of any information
         about the applicable Interests, the Subject Company or Seller that it may receive either
         directly from the Subject Company or Seller, and that none of the Subject Company,
         Seller or any Affiliate, partner, employee, officer or director thereof (A) makes any
         representation or warranty or gives any undertaking of any kind, express or implied, as
         to, or accepts or assumes any responsibility or liability of any kind for, the accuracy,
         reliability, adequacy, completeness or reasonableness of any such information or any
         assumptions upon which such information is based except as specifically set forth in this
         Agreement or (B) shall be under any obligation to provide access to or advise such
         Purchaser or any other Person of the existence of any additional information or to review,
         update or correct any inaccuracy in any information about the applicable Interests, the
         Subject Company or Seller (or any assumptions upon which such information is based)
         supplied by it or by any Person or be otherwise liable to the Subject Company or Seller or
         any other Person with respect to any such information or assumptions, except as
         specifically contemplated in this Agreement.

               (d)    Accredited Investor; Qualified Purchaser. Such Purchaser is an
“accredited investor” within the meaning of Rule 501 of Regulation D of the Securities Act of
1933, as amended and a “qualified purchaser” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(51)(A) of the
Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder.

              (e)     No Resale. Such Purchaser’s purchase of the applicable Interests is for its
own account for investment and not with a view to the distribution or resale thereof, except in
compliance with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and applicable state securities laws.

               (f)    Broker’s Fee. No Person acting on behalf of such Purchaser or under the
authority of such Purchaser shall be entitled to any broker’s, finder’s, or similar fee or
commission in connection with the Transactions.



                                                 5

4882-2525-3982 v.8
              Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-3      Filed 05/31/24     Page 8 of 48




                 (g)     Bidder Questionnaire. Such Purchaser has completed the bidder
questionnaire (as set forth in the Sale Procedures) and the responses provided therein are true and
correct in all respects.

                     (h)   No Other Representations or Warranties.

                          (i)     Except for the representations and warranties contained in this
         Section 2.2, such Purchaser has not made any other express or implied representation or
         warranty with respect to, or otherwise in connection with, the Interests, the Subject
         Company, any Purchaser, Seller or any of their respective businesses, operations, assets,
         liabilities, conditions (financial or otherwise) or prospects in connection with this
         Agreement or the Transactions, and such Purchaser disclaims any other representations or
         warranties, whether made by such Purchaser, any Affiliate of such Purchaser or any of
         such Purchaser’s or its Affiliates’ respective representatives.

                           (ii)    Such Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that, except for the
         representations and warranties expressly set forth in Section 2.1, (A) neither Seller nor
         any other Person has made any express or implied representation or warranty with respect
         to, or otherwise in connection with, the Transactions or with respect to the accuracy or
         completeness of any other information provided, or made available, to such Purchaser in
         connection with the Transactions and such Purchaser has not relied on any representation
         or warranty other than those expressly set forth in Section 2.1, (B) such Purchaser has not
         executed or authorized the execution of this Agreement or entered into the Transactions
         in reliance upon, and hereby specifically disclaims reliance upon, any promise, statement,
         projection, forecast, representation or warranty whatsoever made or omitted to be made
         to such Purchaser or any of its Affiliates, or any of its or their respective representatives,
         including any such promise, statement, projection, forecast, representation or warranty as
         to the condition, value, quality or prospects of the Subject Company, or its assets or
         liabilities, including the Operative Documents, or any part thereof; and (C) the Interests
         are being transferred “as is”, “where is” and “with all faults”. Such Purchaser
         acknowledges and agrees that, except for the representations and warranties expressly set
         forth in Section 2.1, Seller, on behalf of itself and its subsidiaries and Affiliates
         (x) expressly disclaims and negates any representation or warranty, expressed or implied,
         at common law, by statute or otherwise, with respect to the business, operations, assets,
         liabilities, conditions (financial or otherwise) and prospects of the Subject Company or
         with respect to the Interests (including any express or implied warranty of
         merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose) and (y) disclaims all liability and
         responsibility for any representation, warranty, projection, forecast, statement or
         information made, communicated or furnished (orally or in writing) to such Purchaser or
         its Affiliates or its or their respective representatives (including any opinion, information,
         projection or advice that may have been or may be provided to such Purchaser by any
         representative of Seller or any of its Affiliates). Such Purchaser acknowledges and agrees
         that Seller has not made any representations or warranties to such Purchaser regarding the
         probable success or profitability of the Subject Company.

                       (iii)  Such Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that the enforceability of
         this Agreement against Seller is subject to compliance with the Sale Procedures and entry

                                                   6

4882-2525-3982 v.8
               Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-3   Filed 05/31/24     Page 9 of 48




         of the Sale Order and any other Order entered into by the Bankruptcy Court applicable to
         the Transactions.



                                             COVENANTS

         3.1    Tax Matters. Seller and each Purchaser shall (i) cooperate with each other in good
faith in connection with Taxes with respect to the Subject Company or the Interests and with
respect to the Tax treatment of the Transactions and (ii) use commercially reasonable efforts to
obtain any certificate or other document from any Governmental Entity as may be necessary to
mitigate, reduce or eliminate any Tax (including withholding or deduction in respect of Taxes)
that could be imposed with respect to the Transactions. All Transfer Taxes, if any, incurred in
connection with the consummation of the Transactions shall be borne by the applicable
Purchaser(s). If any Purchaser reasonably believes that it is required to deduct and withhold from
the payment of any amounts payable to Seller hereunder under applicable Law, such Purchaser
shall notify Seller at least ten (10) Business Days before any such payment subject to
withholding.

        3.2     Confidentiality. Seller and each Purchaser (a) acknowledge that, with respect to
the Confidentiality Agreement with such Purchaser, (i) such agreement remains in full force and
effect in accordance with its terms, (ii) such agreement shall not terminate due to this
Agreement, and (iii) the terms of such agreement are incorporated herein by reference, and
(b) agree to be bound thereby in the same manner and to the same extent as if the terms had been
set forth herein in full except that Seller shall be permitted to disclose the terms of this
Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, Seller is expressly permitted to disclose this Agreement,
any Transfer Documents and, in each case, any exhibits and schedules thereto with the
Bankruptcy Court as necessary or advisable in connection with the Transactions.

        3.3     Agreement to Be Bound. Each Purchaser agrees to accept and be bound by the
terms and conditions of all the Operative Documents and the obligations and limitations of Seller
under all of the Operative Documents as though such Purchaser was an original party thereto.
Each Purchaser agrees to execute such additional documents as may be necessary to become a
party to one or more of the Operative Documents, as may be requested by the Subject Company.



                                      BANKRUPTCY MATTERS

         4.1         Bankruptcy Court Filings.

                (a)    Seller or its applicable Debtor Affiliates shall (i) file with the Bankruptcy
Court a written notice including the Sale Disclosures (as defined in the Sale Procedures Order),
no later than two (2) Business Days after entering into this Agreement, pursuant to the Sale
Procedures (the “Sale Notice”) and (ii) use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain Bankruptcy
Court approval of the Sale Order.


                                                 7

4882-2525-3982 v.8
             Case 22-11068-JTD           Doc 16380-3   Filed 05/31/24      Page 10 of 48




                (b)     Each Purchaser shall (i) appear in the Bankruptcy Court or furnish any
affidavits, declarations or other documents or information for filing with the Bankruptcy Court,
in each case, if reasonably requested by Seller or required by the Bankruptcy Court in connection
with the Transactions and (ii) keep Seller reasonably apprised of the status of material matters
related to this Agreement, including, promptly furnishing Seller with copies of notices or other
communications received from the Bankruptcy Court or any Person with respect to the
Transactions.

                (c)     The Parties shall consult with each other regarding pleadings that any of
them intends to file with the Bankruptcy Court in connection with, or which might reasonably
affect the Bankruptcy Court’s approval of, the Sale Order. Seller shall promptly provide each
Purchaser and its outside legal counsel with copies of all notices, filings and orders of the
Bankruptcy Court that Seller has in its possession (or receives) pertaining to the Sale Order, or
related to any of the Transactions, but only to the extent such papers are not publicly available on
the docket of the Bankruptcy Court or otherwise made available to such Purchaser and its outside
legal counsel. Seller shall not seek any modification to the Sale Order with respect to the
Transactions by the Bankruptcy Court or any other Governmental Entity of competent
jurisdiction to which a decision relating to the Bankruptcy Proceeding has been appealed that is
materially adverse to the Purchasers, in each case, without the prior written consent of
Purchasers (not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed).

                (d)     If any order of the Bankruptcy Court relating to this Agreement shall be
appealed by any Person (or a petition for certiorari or motion for rehearing, re-argument or stay
shall be filed with respect thereto), Seller agrees to, and agrees to cause its Debtor Affiliates to,
use their commercially reasonable efforts, to defend against such appeal, petition or motion, and
each Purchaser agrees to cooperate reasonably in such efforts. Each Party hereby agrees to use its
commercially reasonable efforts to obtain an expedited resolution of such appeal.

         4.2         Alternative Transaction.

                (a)     Consummation of the Transactions are subject to approval by the
Bankruptcy Court and the consideration by the Debtor Affiliates and the Bankruptcy Court of
higher or better competing bids. From and after the date hereof until the date on which the Sale
Order is entered (the “Sale Process Date”), Seller and the Debtor Affiliates shall be permitted to
cause their respective representatives and Debtor Affiliates to (i) initiate contact with, or solicit
or encourage submission of any inquiries, proposals or offers by, any Person (in addition to
Purchasers and their Affiliates, agents and representatives) with respect to an Alternative
Transaction, and (ii) respond to any inquiries or offers to purchase all or any part of the Subject
Company and/or its assets (whether in combination with other assets of Seller and the Debtor
Affiliates or otherwise) and perform any and all other acts related thereto which are required or
permitted under the Bankruptcy Code, any Order entered into by the Bankruptcy Court
applicable to the Transactions or other applicable Law, including supplying information relating
to the Subject Company and the assets of the Subject Company to prospective purchasers.

                (b)     Seller shall have the right, at any time before the Sale Process Date, to sell
Shares to one or more additional purchasers (each such Purchaser, an “Additional Purchaser”) on
the terms set forth herein (each such sale, an “Additional Sale”); provided that where the per

                                                  8

4882-2525-3982 v.8
             Case 22-11068-JTD       Doc 16380-3      Filed 05/31/24      Page 11 of 48




share price of the Shares to be purchased in an Additional Sale exceeds the Per Share Price of
any of the Interests to be purchased by any of the existing Purchasers pursuant to this
Agreement, (A) Seller may elect to allocate Shares to any such Additional Purchaser by reducing
the Interests allocated to the Purchasers hereunder and (B) any such reduction pursuant to this
Section 4.2(b) shall first reduce pro rata the Interests sharing the lowest Per Share Price, and then
pro rata for the Interests sharing the next lowest Per Share Price, and so on, as applicable, until
such time as the lowest Per Share Price of the remaining Interests is greater than the per share
price of the Shares in the Additional Sale, whereupon the Additional Purchaser shall not be
allocated any such remaining Interests; provided, however, that Seller will provide prior written
notice to any Purchaser whose number of Interests will be reduced pursuant to this Section
4.2(b), and such existing Purchaser may elect to increase the Per Share Price for such
Purchaser’s Interests at any time prior to the joinder of the Additional Purchaser to this
Agreement. Each Additional Purchaser shall execute a joinder to this Agreement and the related
Transfer Documents in the form set forth on Schedule B hereto, and upon delivery of such
joinder agreement, (x) Seller shall update Schedule A to include such Additional Purchaser and
the number of Shares such Additional Purchaser is purchasing, and any related reduction in the
Interests to be purchased by the existing Purchasers pursuant to the preceding sentence, and
(y) such Additional Purchaser shall be considered a “Purchaser” and the Shares to be purchased
by such Additional Purchaser shall be considered “Interests” for all purposes under this
Agreement and the other agreements contemplated hereby.

         4.3         Sale Order.

                (a)    Subject to Section 4.2 and Section 7.9, Seller and each Purchaser shall
take all actions as may be reasonably necessary to cause the Sale Order to be issued, entered and
become a Final Order, including furnishing affidavits, declarations or other documents or
information for filing with the Bankruptcy Court. Each Purchaser agrees that it will promptly
take such actions as are reasonably requested by Seller to assist in obtaining entry of the Sale
Order, including furnishing affidavits or other documents or information for filing with the
Bankruptcy Court for the purposes, among others, of providing necessary assurances of
performance by such Purchaser under this Agreement and, if applicable, demonstrating that such
Purchaser is a “good faith” buyer under section 363(m) of the Bankruptcy Code.

                 (b)    The Sale Order shall, among other things, (i) approve, pursuant to sections
105 and 363 of the Bankruptcy Code, (A) the execution, delivery and performance by the Seller
of this Agreement, (B) the sale of the Interests to Purchasers on the terms set forth herein and
free and clear of all Liens (other than Permitted Encumbrances), and (C) the performance by
Seller of its obligations under this Agreement and (ii) find that each Purchaser is not a successor
to Seller. If requested by any Purchaser, and subject to delivery by such Purchaser of any
applicable affidavits requested by Seller or set forth in the Sale Procedures in connection
therewith, the Sale Order shall also include a finding that such Purchaser is a “good faith” buyer
within the meaning of section 363(m) of the Bankruptcy Code and grant such Purchaser the
protections related thereto.




                                                  9

4882-2525-3982 v.8
             Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-3      Filed 05/31/24    Page 12 of 48




                                    CONDITIONS TO CLOSING

        5.1     Mutual Conditions. The respective obligations of Seller and each Purchaser to
effect the applicable Closing are subject to the satisfaction or waiver by the other Party of the
following conditions on or prior to the applicable Closing Date:

              (a)    The Sale Notice shall have been filed in accordance with the terms of the
Sale Procedures; and

                     (b)   The Bankruptcy Court shall have entered the Sale Order.

        5.2     Conditions to the Obligation of Purchasers. The obligation of each Purchaser to
effect the applicable Closing is subject to the satisfaction or waiver by such Purchaser of the
following additional conditions on or prior to the applicable Closing Date:

                (a)     The representations and warranties of Seller contained in this Agreement
shall be true and correct (without giving effect to any materiality qualifiers, including “Material
Adverse Effect”, contained therein) as of the applicable Closing Date as though made on and as
of such date (except to the extent that any such representation and warranty expressly speaks as
of an earlier date, in which case such representation and warranty shall be true and correct as of
such earlier date), except where the failure of any such representations and warranties to be so
true and correct would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a
Material Adverse Effect; and

              (b)      Seller shall have performed in all material respects all obligations required
to be performed by it under this Agreement on or prior to the applicable Closing Date.

        5.3     Conditions to the Obligation of Seller. The obligation of Seller to each Purchaser
to effect the applicable Closing is subject to the satisfaction or waiver by Seller of the following
additional conditions on or prior to the applicable Closing Date:

                (a)     The representations and warranties of such Purchaser contained in this
Agreement shall be true and correct (without giving effect to any materiality qualifiers, including
“Material Adverse Effect”, contained therein) as of the applicable Closing Date as though made
on and as of such date (except to the extent that any such representation and warranty expressly
speaks as of an earlier date, in which case such representation and warranty shall be true and
correct as of such earlier date); and

               (b)     Such Purchaser shall have performed in all material respects all
obligations required to be performed by it under this Agreement on or prior to the applicable
Closing Date.




                                                   10

4882-2525-3982 v.8
             Case 22-11068-JTD           Doc 16380-3     Filed 05/31/24     Page 13 of 48




                                            TERMINATION

         6.1         Grounds for Termination. This Agreement may be terminated in its entirety at any
time:

                     (a)    by mutual agreement of Seller, on the one hand, and Purchasers, on the
other hand;

                (b)    by Seller, on the one hand, or Purchasers, on the other hand, if there is in
effect a Final Order of a Governmental Entity of competent jurisdiction, enjoining or otherwise
prohibiting the consummation of the Transactions (it being agreed that the Parties will promptly
appeal any adverse determination which is not non-appealable and pursue such appeal in
accordance with their respective obligations under this Agreement unless and until this
Agreement is terminated pursuant to this Section 6.1);

                 (c)     automatically, if Seller enters into one or more definitive agreements
(other than this Agreement) with respect to an Alternative Transaction that results in the sale of
all of the Interests; or

               (d)     by Seller, if Seller or the board of directors (or similar governing body) of
Seller determines that proceeding with the Transactions or failing to terminate this Agreement
could be inconsistent with its or such Person’s or body’s fiduciary duties.

        6.2      Termination of an Individual Purchaser. This Agreement may be terminated with
respect to the acquisition of the applicable Interests by any individual Purchaser (the
“Terminated Purchaser”): (a) by mutual agreement of Seller, on the one hand, and such
Purchaser, on the other hand; (b) by either Seller or such Purchaser if the applicable Closing has
not occurred by within one hundred and twenty (120) days following the date hereof (the
“Termination Date”); provided, that the right to terminate such acquisition pursuant to this
Section 6.2(b) shall not be available to a Party that has breached in any material respect its
obligations under this Agreement in any manner that shall have proximately contributed to the
failure of the applicable Closing to have occurred on or prior to the Termination Date; (c) by
Seller with respect to any Purchaser, where the number of Interests to be sold to such Purchaser
is reduced to zero pursuant to Section 4.2(b); or (d) by Seller if such Purchaser shall have
breached or failed to perform in any material respect any of its covenants or other agreements
contained in this Agreement, or any of its representations and warranties shall have become
untrue after the date hereof, which breach or failure to perform or be true (i) would give rise to
the failure of a condition set forth in Section 5.1 or Section 5.3 and (ii) is not curable or, if
curable, is not cured within the earlier of (A) five (5) days after written notice thereof is given by
Seller to such Purchaser and (B) the Termination Date; provided, that Seller shall not have the
right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this Section 6.2 if Seller is then in material breach
of any of its representations, warranties, covenants or other agreements hereunder and such
material breach would give rise to the failure of a condition set forth in Section 5.1 or
Section 5.2. Upon such termination, Seller shall update Schedule A accordingly to reflect such
termination.

                                                    11

4882-2525-3982 v.8
             Case 22-11068-JTD      Doc 16380-3      Filed 05/31/24     Page 14 of 48




        6.3     Effect of Termination. If this Agreement is terminated as permitted by Section 6.1
or Section 6.2:

                (a)     no Party shall have any liability or further obligation to any other Party
pursuant to this Agreement (or, with respect to Section 6.2, Seller and the Terminated Purchaser
shall have no liability or further obligation to the other Party pursuant to this Agreement);
provided, however, that (i) the agreements of Seller and the applicable Purchaser set forth in
Section 3.2 (Confidentiality) and Section 7.6 (Expenses) shall survive such termination and
(ii) no such termination shall relieve a Party of any liability or damages to any other Party
resulting from any knowing and intentional material breach of this Agreement;

              (b)      the applicable Purchaser shall return to Seller all documents, work papers
and other material of Seller relating to the Transactions, whether obtained before or after the
execution hereof or certify that such documents have been destroyed; and

               (c)    the provisions of the Confidentiality Agreements will continue in full
force and effect.



                                      OTHER MATTERS

       7.1    Action by Purchasers. Any action to be taken by Purchasers pursuant to this
Agreement, including such actions set forth in Section 4.1(c) and Sections 6.1, shall be effective
upon the consent of Purchasers acquiring at least 50% of the Interests set forth on Schedule A, as
of such time.

        7.2    Waiver, Amendment. Any provision of this Agreement may be amended or
waived, but only if the amendment or waiver is in writing and signed, in the case of an
amendment, by each Party or, in the case of a waiver, by the Party or Parties that would have
benefited by the provision had it not been waived.

        7.3    Remedies. No failure to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right, remedy,
power or privilege under this Agreement by a Party will operate as a waiver of such right,
remedy, power or privilege, nor will any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or
privilege under this Agreement preclude any other or further exercise of such right, remedy,
power or privilege or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege.

        7.4     No Survival of Representations and Warranties or Covenants. No representations
or warranties, covenants or agreements in this Agreement or in any instrument delivered
pursuant to this Agreement shall survive beyond the latest Closing Date with respect to Seller,
and the applicable Closing Date with respect to each Purchaser, except for covenants and
agreements that by their terms are to be satisfied after the applicable Closing Date, which
covenants and agreements shall survive until satisfied in accordance with their terms. In no event
shall Seller or any Purchaser have any recourse against the other or the Purchaser Parties or the
Seller Parties following the applicable Closing Date, respectively with respect to any
representation, warranty, covenant or agreement made by Seller or such Purchaser, as applicable,

                                                12

4882-2525-3982 v.8
             Case 22-11068-JTD        Doc 16380-3      Filed 05/31/24     Page 15 of 48




in this Agreement or in any other document contemplated hereby, or in any certificate delivered
hereunder or thereunder, except with respect to claims for breaches of covenants and agreements
that by their terms are to be satisfied after the applicable Closing Date.

         7.5     Release. From and after the Closing, upon the terms and subject to the conditions
set forth herein, each Purchaser shall be deemed to have waived, discharged, settled,
compromised and released any and all claims, causes of actions, liens, rights and remedies it has,
had or may have against the Seller Parties as of the Closing in respect of the acquisition or
ownership of the Interests, including with respect to the terms of the Operative Documents and
any alleged breach thereof, whether known or unknown, liquidated or unliquidated, contingent or
non-contingent, except as set forth in this Agreement and to enforce the obligations set forth
herein to effectuate the terms of this Agreement; provided, however, that nothing in this
Agreement shall be construed as a release, waiver, compromise, or settlement of any other
claims Purchaser may have against any Debtor Affiliates or their estates arising prior to the
Bankruptcy Proceeding. Purchaser Parties expressly waive and relinquish any and all provisions,
rights, and benefits conferred by California Civil Code § 1542 or any similar law of any state or
territory of the United States or any principle of common law that is similar, comparable or
equivalent to California Civil Code § 1542.

        7.6     Expenses. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or the Transfer
Documents, each Party shall bear its own costs and expenses (including brokerage commissions,
finders’ fees or similar compensation, and legal fees and expenses) incurred in connection with
this Agreement, the Transfer Documents and the Transactions.

        7.7     Notices. All notices, requests and other communications under this Agreement to
a Party will be in writing and will be deemed given (a) on the Business Day sent, when delivered
by hand or facsimile transmission (with confirmation) during normal business hours, (b) on the
Business Day following the Business Day of sending, if delivered by nationally recognized
overnight courier, or (c) on the third (3rd) Business Day following the Business Day of sending,
if mailed by registered or certified mail return receipt requested, in each case to such Party at its
address (or number) set forth below or on Schedule A, as applicable, or such other address (or
number) as the Party may specify by notice to each other Party.

If to Seller:

         Clifton Bay Investments LLC
         2600 South Shore Blvd, Suite 300
         League City, TX 77573
         Attention: Kathryn Schultea
         Email: kathyschultea@ftx.com

         With a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:

         Sullivan & Cromwell LLP
         125 Broad Street
         New York, NY 10004


                                                  13

4882-2525-3982 v.8
             Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-3   Filed 05/31/24      Page 16 of 48




         Attention: Audra D. Cohen
                    Rita-Anne O’Neill
         Telephone:(212) 558-3275
                    (310) 712-6698
         Email:     cohena@sullcrom.com
                    oneillr@sullcrom.com
                    kranzleya@sullcrom.com
                    wum@sullcrom.com


         7.8         Specific Performance.

                (a)    Each Party agrees that irreparable damage would occur in the event that
any of the provisions of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with their specific
terms or were otherwise breached, and that damages at law may be an inadequate remedy for the
breach of any of the covenants, promises and agreements contained in this Agreement.
Accordingly, any Party will be entitled to injunctive relief to prevent any such breach, and to
specifically enforce the terms and provisions of this Agreement without the necessity of posting
bond or other security against it or proving damages, including specific performance of such
covenants, promises or agreements (including to cause any Purchaser to consummate the
Transactions and to make the payments contemplated by this Agreement) or an Order enjoining a
Party from any threatened, or from the continuation of any actual, breach of the covenants,
promises or agreements contained in this Agreement. The rights set forth in this Section 7.8 will
be in addition to any other rights which a Party may have at law or in equity pursuant to this
Agreement.

               (b)    Each Party agrees not to raise any objections to the availability of the
equitable remedy of specific performance to prevent or restrain breaches of this Agreement by
any Purchaser or Seller, as applicable, and to specifically enforce the terms and provisions of this
Agreement to prevent breaches or threatened breaches of, or to enforce compliance with, the
respective covenants and obligations of any Purchaser or Seller, as applicable, under this
Agreement all in accordance with the terms of this Section 7.8.

        7.9     Fiduciary Obligations. Nothing in this Agreement, or any document related to the
Transactions, will require Seller or any of its directors, officers or stockholders, in each case, in
their capacities as such, to take any action, or to refrain from taking any action, to the extent
inconsistent with their fiduciary obligations. For the avoidance of doubt, until the last Closing
has occurred, Seller retains the right to pursue any transaction or restructuring strategy that, in
Seller’s business judgment, will maximize the value of its estate.

        7.10 Entire Understanding; No Third-Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement, the
Transfer Documents and the Confidentiality Agreements together set forth the entire
understanding of the Parties relating to the subject matter of this Agreement and supersede all
contemporaneous understandings and prior agreements, written or oral, among the Parties with
respect to the subject matter of this Agreement. In the event of any conflict between this
Agreement and the Transfer Documents or the Operative Documents, the provisions of this
Agreement shall prevail. No representation, warranty, inducement, promise, understanding or

                                                 14

4882-2525-3982 v.8
             Case 22-11068-JTD           Doc 16380-3     Filed 05/31/24    Page 17 of 48




condition not set forth in this Agreement has been made or relied on by any Party in entering into
this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, is intended to confer on any
Person, other than the Parties or their respective successors, any rights, remedies, obligations or
liabilities.

        7.11 Assignment. Neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or obligations
under it may be assigned by any Party (whether by operation of law or otherwise) without the
prior written consent of the other Parties, and any purported assignment in violation of this
Section 7.11 will be void, except for the following assignments which shall not require any
consent and will not be void: (a) assignment to an Affiliate of any Party (provided that such
Party remains liable jointly and severally with its assignee Affiliate for the assigned obligations
to the other Parties) and (b) assignment by Seller to a succeeding entity following its emergence
from the Bankruptcy Proceeding. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Agreement will be
binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by each Party to this Agreement and its
successors and permitted assigns.

       7.12 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each
of which will constitute an original and all of which, when taken together, will constitute one
Agreement.

         7.13 Severability. If any of the provisions of this Agreement is found to be in violation
of Law or unenforceable for any reason, then (a) a suitable and equitable provision shall be
substituted therefor in order to carry out, so far as may be valid and enforceable, the intent and
purpose of such invalid or unenforceable provision and (b) the remainder of this Agreement and
the application of such provision, covenant or restriction to other Persons or circumstances shall
not be affected by such invalidity or unenforceability, nor shall such invalidity or
unenforceability affect the validity or enforceability of such provision, or the application of such
provision, in any other jurisdiction, and the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and
restrictions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be
affected, impaired or invalidated.

        7.14 No Presumption. The Parties agree that this Agreement was negotiated fairly
between them at arm’s length and that the final terms of this Agreement are the product of their
negotiations. Each Party represents and warrants that it has sought and received experienced
legal counsel of its own choosing with regard to the contents of this Agreement and the rights
and obligations affected hereby. The Parties agree that this Agreement shall be deemed to have
been jointly and equally drafted by them, and that the provisions of this Agreement therefore
should not be construed against a Party on the grounds that such Party drafted or was more
responsible for drafting the provisions.

         7.15        Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction; Waiver of Jury Trial.

                (a)    This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the
internal Laws of the State of Delaware, without giving effect to any choice or conflict of law
provision or rule (whether of the State of Delaware or any other jurisdiction) that would cause
the application of the Laws of any jurisdiction other than the State of Delaware, and the
obligations, rights and remedies of each Party shall be determined in accordance with such Laws.

                                                    15

4882-2525-3982 v.8
             Case 22-11068-JTD            Doc 16380-3      Filed 05/31/24     Page 18 of 48




                (b)      Without limiting a Party’s right to appeal any order of the Bankruptcy
Court, as between the Parties to this Agreement (i) the Bankruptcy Court will retain exclusive
jurisdiction to enforce the terms of this Agreement and to decide any claims or disputes which
may arise or result from, or be connected with, this Agreement, any breach or default hereunder,
or the Interests, and (ii) any and all proceedings related to the foregoing will be filed and
maintained only in the Bankruptcy Court, and each Party hereby consents to and submits to the
jurisdiction and venue of the Bankruptcy Court for such purposes and will receive notices at such
locations as indicated in Section 7.7; provided, however, that if the Bankruptcy Proceeding has
been closed pursuant to section 350 of the Bankruptcy Code, each Party agrees to
unconditionally and irrevocably submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States District
Court for the District of Delaware, or in the event (but only in the event) that such court does not
have subject matter jurisdiction over such Action, in the Delaware Court of Chancery, for the
resolution of any such claim or dispute. Each Party hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest
extent permitted by applicable Law, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the
laying of venue of any such Action brought in such court or any defense of inconvenient forum
for the maintenance of such dispute. Each Party agrees that a judgment in any such dispute may
be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by
Law.

               (c)    Each Party consents to process being served by any other Party in any
Action by delivery of a copy thereof in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.7; provided,
however, that such service will not be effective until the actual receipt thereof by the Party being
served.

              (d)   Each Party waives any right to trial by jury in any Action regarding this
Agreement or any provision hereof.

        7.16 Damages. No Party shall have any liability under any provision of this Agreement
for any punitive, incidental, consequential, special or indirect damages, including business
interruption, loss of future revenue, profits or income, or loss of business reputation or
opportunity relating to the breach or alleged breach of this Agreement.

         7.17        Interpretation. (a) As used in this Agreement, references to:

                        (i)      the words “hereby”, “hereof”, “herein”, “hereunder” or words of
         similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of
         this Agreement;

                         (ii)   the Preamble, Recitals, Sections or Exhibits refer to the Preamble,
         a Recital or a Section of, or an Exhibit to this Agreement unless otherwise indicated;

                            (iii)   this Agreement refers to this Agreement and the Exhibits to it; and

                        (iv)   all references to “$”, “USD” and any currency amounts are in U.S.
         Dollars unless otherwise specified.

              (b)     Wherever this Agreement requires a Party to take an action, the
requirement constitutes an undertaking by the Party to cause its subsidiaries, and to use its
                                                      16

4882-2525-3982 v.8
             Case 22-11068-JTD      Doc 16380-3       Filed 05/31/24      Page 19 of 48




commercially reasonable efforts to cause its other Affiliates, to take appropriate action in
connection therewith.

               (c)      Whenever the words “include”, “includes” or “including” are used in this
Agreement, they will be deemed to be followed by the words “without limitation.” Any singular
term in this Agreement will be deemed to include the plural, and any plural term the singular. All
pronouns and variations of pronouns will be deemed to refer to the feminine, masculine or
neuter, singular or plural, as the identity of the Person referred to may require.

              (d)     The various captions and headings contained in this Agreement are for
reference purposes only and do not limit or otherwise affect any of the provisions of this
Agreement.


                           [Remainder of page intentionally left blank]




                                                 17

4882-2525-3982 v.8
         Case 22-11068-JTD      Doc 16380-3     Filed 05/31/24   Page 20 of 48




       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties named below have caused this instrument to be
duly executed, all as of the day and year first above written.

                                         SELLER:

                                         CLIFTON BAY INVESTMENTS LLC


                                         By:
                                               Name:    John J. Ray III
                                               Title:   Authorized Signatory




                [Signature Page to Anthropic Purchase and Sale Agreement]
Case 22-11068-JTD    Doc 16380-3     Filed 05/31/24    Page 21 of 48




                        PURCHASER:


                        G SQUARED VI HOLDCO, LLC


                        By:
                                     Name: Larry Aschebrook
                                     Title: Authorized Representative

                        Address:     180 N. Stetson Avenue, Suite 5100
                                     Chicago, IL 60601


                        Attention:   Jeffrey Barton
                        Email:       larry@gsquared.com /
                                     jefff@gsquared.com




     [Signature Page to Anthropic Purchase and Sale Agreement]
Case 22-11068-JTD    Doc 16380-3     Filed 05/31/24    Page 22 of 48




                        PURCHASER:
                        Manius Invest Co Ltd



                        By:
                                     Name: Essa M A A H Ibrahim
                                     Title: Director

                        Address:     Craigmuir Chambers, Road Town,
                                     Tortola, VG 1110, British Virgin Islands



                        Attention:   Sandip Bhatt
                        Email:       dico.invest@damacgroup.com




     [Signature Page to Anthropic Purchase and Sale Agreement]
DocuSign Envelope ID: 43D04BE1-2D5A-43AD-8DC9-869E2ACAAEC4
                       Case 22-11068-JTD           Doc 16380-3     Filed 05/31/24   Page 23 of 48




                                                      PURCHASER:
                                                             Scenic Management LLC


                                                      By:
                                                            Michael Sobel
                                                            Managing Partner
                                                            Scenic Co-Invest Anthropic LLC
                                                      Address:
                                                         915 Battery Street
                                                         San Francisco, CA 94111

                                                      Attention: sobel@scenicadvisement.com
                                                      Email: sobel@scenicadvisement.com




                                [Signature Page to Anthropic Purchase and Sale Agreement]
DocuSign Envelope ID: 43D04BE1-2D5A-43AD-8DC9-869E2ACAAEC4
                       Case 22-11068-JTD           Doc 16380-3     Filed 05/31/24   Page 24 of 48




                                                      PURCHASER:

                                                             Scenic Co-Invest Anthropic LLC


                                                      By:
                                                           Michael Sobel
                                                           Managing Partner
                                                           Scenic Co-Invest Anthropic LLC
                                                      Address:
                                                         915 Battery Street
                                                         San Francisco, CA 94111

                                                      Attention: sobel@scenicadvisement.com
                                                      Email: sobel@scenicadvisement.com




                                [Signature Page to Anthropic Purchase and Sale Agreement]
Case 22-11068-JTD    Doc 16380-3     Filed 05/31/24   Page 25 of 48




                        PURCHASER:

                        Elysium VC (N) LLC

                        Elysium Management LLC, Managing Member


                        By:
                                     Name: Barry J. Cohen
                                     Title: President

                        Address: 445 Park Ave., 1401, New York, NY 10022




                        Attention:   Barry J. Cohen
                        Email:       bcohen@elysllc.com




     [Signature Page to Anthropic Purchase and Sale Agreement]
Case 22-11068-JTD    Doc 16380-3       Filed 05/31/24    Page 26 of 48




                        PURCHASER:
                        Fund SCVC-PV-LXVI, a series of SCVC Advisors, LP




                        By:
                                       Name: Amrit Saxena
                                       Title: Managing Partner

                        Address: 84
                        Malta Drive,
                        San
                        Francisco,
                        CA 94131



                        Attention:
                        Amrit
                        Saxena
                        Email:
                        amrit@saxec
                        ap.com




     [Signature Page to Anthropic Purchase and Sale Agreement]
Case 22-11068-JTD    Doc 16380-3      Filed 05/31/24    Page 27 of 48




                       PURCHASER:
                       Fund XLVIII, a series of SCVC Advisors, LP




                       By:
                                      Name: Amrit Saxena
                                      Title: Managing Partner

                       Address: 84
                       Malta Drive,
                       San
                       Francisco,
                       CA 94131



                       Attention:
                       Amrit
                       Saxena
                       Email:
                       amrit@saxec
                       ap.com




     [Signature Page to Anthropic Purchase and Sale Agreement]
Case 22-11068-JTD    Doc 16380-3     Filed 05/31/24    Page 28 of 48




                        PURCHASER:

                        KOREA INVESTMENT PARTNERS CO., LTD.
                        KIP Re-Up II Fund



                        By:
                                     Name: Mahn Soon Hwang
                                     Title: Chief Executive Officer

                        Address:     10F Asem Tower, 517 Yeongdong-daero,
                                     Gangnam-gu, Seoul 06164, Republic of
                                     Korea
                        Attention:
                        Email:       minq.kim@koreainvestment.com




     [Signature Page to Anthropic Purchase and Sale Agreement]
Case 22-11068-JTD    Doc 16380-3     Filed 05/31/24   Page 29 of 48




                       PURCHASER:




                       By:
                                    Name:
                                    Title:

                       Address:



                       Attention:
                       Email:




     [Signature Page to Anthropic Purchase and Sale Agreement]
DocuSign Envelope ID: A37C8856-7427-453E-A70D-7787DB6B3357
                        Case 22-11068-JTD            Doc 16380-3     Filed 05/31/24   Page 30 of 48




                                                        PURCHASER:




                                                        By:
                                                                     Name: Lawrence P. Bancroft
                                                                     Title: Managing Member

                                                        Address:     601 Montgomery Street, Suite 1212
                                                                     San Francisco, CA 94111



                                                        Attention:   Greenbook Ventures
                                                        Email:       lawrence@greenbookventures.com




                                 [Signature Page to Anthropic Purchase and Sale Agreement]
DocuSign Envelope ID: 47813BA1-B490-48FC-BAA6-A30C2A6689C4
                        Case 22-11068-JTD           Doc 16380-3     Filed 05/31/24      Page 31 of 48




                                                       PURCHASER:




                                                       By:
                                                                   Name: Adam Crawley
                                                                   Title: Manager

                                                       Address: 1204 San Antonio St
                                                               Floor 2
                                                               Austin, Texas 78701


                                                       Attention: Adam Crawley
                                                       Email:     adam@augment.market




                                 [Signature Page to Anthropic Purchase and Sale Agreement]
Case 22-11068-JTD     Doc 16380-3      Filed 05/31/24     Page 32 of 48




                      PURCHASER:
                      MW LSVC ANTHROPIC, LLC


                      ______________________________________
                      By: MWSI VC Manager, LLC, Manager

                               By: Lorenzo Esparza, Manager
                      Address: 1999 Avenue of the Stars
                               Suite 2500
                               Los Angeles, CA 90067

                      Attention: Lorenzo Esparza
                      Email:     LEsparza@manhattanwest.com




       [Signature Page to Anthropic Purchase and Sale Agreement]
Case 22-11068-JTD    Doc 16380-3      Filed 05/31/24     Page 33 of 48




                                PURCHASER:

                                TELESOFT – 2020, LP
                                By:
                                Name: Arjun Gupta
                                Title: Executive Manager of the General Partner
                                Address: 400 E Main Street, Suite 2
                                         Aspen, CO 81611, USA
                                Attention: Arjun Gupta

                                Email: Arjun@telesoftvc.com




     [Signature Page to Anthropic Purchase and Sale Agreement]
Case 22-11068-JTD    Doc 16380-3      Filed 05/31/24     Page 34 of 48




                                PURCHASER:

                                Telesoft Capital, LLC
                                By:
                                Name: Arjun Gupta
                                Title: Managing Member
                                Address: 400 E Main Street, Suite 2
                                         Aspen, CO 81611, USA

                                Attention: Arjun Gupta

                                Email: Arjun@telesoftvc.com




     [Signature Page to Anthropic Purchase and Sale Agreement]
Case 22-11068-JTD   Doc 16380-3   Filed 05/31/24   Page 35 of 48
Case 22-11068-JTD   Doc 16380-3   Filed 05/31/24   Page 36 of 48
Case 22-11068-JTD   Doc 16380-3    Filed 05/31/24     Page 37 of 48




                      PURCHASER:
                      CONSTITUTIONAL AI GOVERNANCE FUND 2
                      LLC

                      By: LTA Advisors LLC, Its General Partner


                      By:
                                Name: Ryan Logue
                                Title: Managing Member

                      Address: 2810 N Church St
                               Wilmington, DE 19802


                      Attention: Ryan Logue
                      Email:     ryan@ltse.com
Case 22-11068-JTD   Doc 16380-3    Filed 05/31/24     Page 38 of 48




                      PURCHASER: CONSTITUTIONALAI FUND, A
                      SERIES OF ABUNDANCE MASTER FUND LLC

                      By: LTA Advisors LLC, Its Organizer



                      By:
                                   Name: Ryan Logue
                                   Title: Managing Member

                      Address: 2810 N Church St
                               Wilmington, DE 19802


                      Attention: Ryan Logue
                      Email:     ryan@ltse.com
DocuSign Envelope ID: F1AFE7B1-3A54-44B6-8B58-F4080420E41B
                        Case 22-11068-JTD            Doc 16380-3       Filed 05/31/24    Page 39 of 48




                                                        PURCHASER:

                                                             Fund FG-BLU, a series of Forge Investments LLC


                                                        By:
                                                                       Name: Grant George
                                                                       Title: Principal, Forge Global Advisors
                                                                       LLC

                                                        Address:       4 Embarcadero Center, Floor 15
                                                                       San Francisco, CA 94111


                                                        Attention:     Investment Team
                                                        Email:         fundadmin@forgeglobal.com




                                 [Signature Page to Anthropic Purchase and Sale Agreement]
DocuSign Envelope ID: F1AFE7B1-3A54-44B6-8B58-F4080420E41B
                        Case 22-11068-JTD            Doc 16380-3       Filed 05/31/24    Page 40 of 48




                                                        PURCHASER:

                                                              Fund FG-AGV, a series of Forge Investments LLC


                                                        By:
                                                                       Name: Grant George
                                                                       Title: Principal, Forge Global Advisors
                                                                       LLC

                                                        Address:       4 Embarcadero Center, Floor 15
                                                                       San Francisco, CA 94111


                                                        Attention:     Investment Team
                                                        Email:         fundadmin@forgeglobal.com




                                 [Signature Page to Anthropic Purchase and Sale Agreement]
Case 22-11068-JTD    Doc 16380-3     Filed 05/31/24     Page 41 of 48




                       PURCHASER: Gemini IDF 2, LLC




                       By:
                                     Name: Michael Miller
                                     Title: President

                       Address:
                         12021 Wilshire Blvd #509, Los Angeles, CA 90025


                       Attention: Michael Miller
                       Email: geminiidfllc@gmail.com




     [Signature Page to Anthropic Purchase and Sale Agreement]
             Case 22-11068-JTD       Doc 16380-3      Filed 05/31/24      Page 42 of 48




                                           EXHIBIT A

                                          DEFINITIONS

       As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified in this
Exhibit A.

       “Action” means any litigation, action, suit, charge, binding arbitration, or other legal,
administrative or judicial proceeding.

         “Additional Purchaser” has the meaning set forth in Section 4.2(b).

         “Additional Sale” has the meaning set forth in Section 4.2(b).

        “Affiliate” means, as to any Person, any other Person that directly or indirectly through
one or more intermediaries controls, or is under common control with, or is controlled by, such
Person.

         “Aggregate Purchase Price” has the meaning set forth in Section 1.2.

         “Agreement” has the meaning set forth in the Preamble.

        “Alternative Transaction” means one or more sales, transfers or other dispositions of the
Interests or other Shares in a transaction with a purchaser or transferee other than Purchasers
and/or their respective Affiliates.

         “Bankruptcy Code” has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.

         “Bankruptcy Court” has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.

         “Bankruptcy Proceeding” has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.

       “Bankruptcy Rules” means the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure and the Local
Rules of Bankruptcy Practice and Procedure of the Bankruptcy Court.

       “Business Day” means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday or a day on which banks
located in the city of New York are authorized or required by statute to close.

         “Closing” has the meaning set forth in Section 1.4.

         “Closing Date” has the meaning set forth in Section 1.4.

         “Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

       “Confidentiality Agreement” means the Confidentiality Agreement between each
Purchaser and FTX Trading Ltd., West Realm Shires Inc., Alameda Research LLC, Clifton Bay
Investments LLC, Paper Bird Inc. and their respective subsidiaries.

         “Debtor Affiliates” means the Debtors and their respective wholly owned subsidiaries.

                                                A-1

4882-2525-3982 v.8
             Case 22-11068-JTD        Doc 16380-3       Filed 05/31/24     Page 43 of 48




         “Debtors” has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.

         “Final Order” means an Order (a) as to which no appeal, leave to appeal, notice of
appeal, motion to amend or make additional findings of fact, motion to alter or amend judgment,
motion for rehearing or motion for new trial has been timely filed (in cases in which there is a
date by which such filing is required to occur), or, if any of the foregoing has been timely filed, it
has been disposed of in a manner that upholds and affirms the subject Order in all material
respects without the possibility for further appeal thereon, (b) in respect of which the time period
for instituting or filing an appeal, leave to appeal, motion for rehearing or motion for new trial
shall have expired (in cases in which such time period is capable of expiring), and (c) as to which
no stay is in effect.

        “Governmental Entity” means any federal, state, provincial, municipal, local or foreign
government, governmental authority, regulatory or administrative agency, governmental
commission, department, board, bureau, agency, instrumentality, court or tribunal and, for
purposes of this Agreement shall include the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and any
state securities authority or other regulatory authority or organization having jurisdiction over the
Debtors, any Purchaser or the Subject Company.

         “Interests” has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.

       “Law” or “Laws” means any law, statute, legislation, constitution, ordinance, principle of
common law, resolution, treaty, convention, rule, regulation, ruling, directive, pronouncement,
Order or other legal requirement enacted, issued, promulgated, enforced or entered by a
Governmental Entity of competent jurisdiction.

         “Lien” means any lien (statutory or otherwise), charge, pledge, mortgage, lease,
easement, hypothecation, usufruct, deed of trust, security interest, option, right of use, first offer
or first refusal, servitude, restrictive covenant or condition, encroachment, claim, interest,
restriction or any other encumbrance of any kind.

         “Material Adverse Effect” means any change, development, circumstance, fact or effect
that, individually or taken together with any other changes, developments, circumstances, facts
or effects is, or would reasonably be expected to be, materially adverse to the financial condition,
assets, liabilities, business operations or results of operations of the Subject Company; provided,
however, that none of the following, either alone or in combination, shall be deemed to constitute
a Material Adverse Effect that is occurring, has occurred or would reasonably be expected to
occur: (a) changes, developments, circumstances or facts in or with respect to the economy,
credit, capital, securities, digital asset or financial markets or political, regulatory or business
conditions in the geographic markets in which the Subject Company has operations or its
products or services are sold, (b) changes, developments, circumstances, facts or effects
generally affecting the industries, markets or geographical areas in which the Subject Company
operates, (c) any change in the price or relative value of any digital currency or cryptocurrency,
or any other blockchain-based tokens or assets, (d) any change in existence or legality of any
digital currency or cryptocurrency, or any other blockchain-based token or asset, or any halt or
suspension in trading of any such digital currency or cryptocurrency on any exchange,
(e) changes, events and occurrences in the industries in which the Subject Company operates

                                                 A-2

4882-2525-3982 v.8
             Case 22-11068-JTD       Doc 16380-3       Filed 05/31/24      Page 44 of 48




generally, (f) macroeconomic factors, interest rates, currency exchange rates, general financial
market conditions, any change, development or effect resulting from acts of war (whether or not
declared), sabotage, terrorism, military actions or the escalation of any of the foregoing, whether
perpetrated or encouraged by a state or non-state actor or actors (other than cyberattacks), any
weather or natural disaster, or any outbreak of illness or other public health event (or any
measures taken in response thereto) or any other force majeure event (except to the extent
causing any damage or destruction to or rendering unusable any material facility or property of
the Subject Company), whether or not caused by any Person (other than the Subject Company or
any of its Affiliates or representatives), (g) changes in law, generally accepted accounting
principles or official interpretations of the foregoing, (h) compliance with this Agreement,
including any effect on Seller resulting from failure to take any action to which any Purchaser
refused consent under this Agreement, (i) the Transactions or any announcement hereof or the
identity of any Purchaser, (j) the pendency of the Bankruptcy Proceeding and any action
approved by, or motion made before, the Bankruptcy Court, or (k) matters known to or
reasonably foreseeable by a Purchaser, taking into account the financial condition, business and
operations of Seller, the fact that Seller is involved in the Bankruptcy Proceeding and the
circumstances giving rise to such Bankruptcy Proceeding; it being understood that the failure of
the Subject Company to achieve internal or external financial forecasts or projections, by itself,
will not constitute a Material Adverse Effect.

        “Operative Documents” means, with respect to the Subject Company, the documents and
agreements set forth in Schedule B and any other shareholders agreements, management
agreements, bylaws, side letters and other documents and agreements governing the rights and
obligations of Seller as an investor in the Subject Company, in each case as amended and/or
restated to date.

        “Order” means any order, writ, judgment, injunction, decree, rule, ruling, decision,
directive, determination, quasi-judicial decision, or award made, issued or entered by or with any
arbitor, mediator, or Governmental Entity, whether preliminary, interlocutory or final, including
by the Bankruptcy Court in the Bankruptcy Proceeding.

         “Party” or “Parties” has the meaning set forth in the Preamble.

      “Per Share Price” means the per share price set forth opposite the applicable Purchaser’s
name on Schedule A.

        “Permitted Encumbrance” means a restriction on transfer arising solely under applicable
federal and state securities Laws and any transfer restrictions set forth in the Operative
Documents or the legends on certificates of the Interests.

        “Person” means any natural person and any corporation, company, partnership (general
or limited), unincorporated association (whether or not having separate legal personality), trust or
other entity.

         “Purchaser” or “Purchasers” has the meaning set forth in the Preamble.

       “Purchaser Parties” means, collectively, (i) each Purchaser, (ii) each of the current or
former Affiliates of such Purchaser, and (iii) each of the current or former officers, directors,
                                                A-3

4882-2525-3982 v.8
             Case 22-11068-JTD        Doc 16380-3       Filed 05/31/24      Page 45 of 48




employees, equityholders, partners, stockholders, members, direct and indirect owners,
managers, advisors, predecessors, successors and assigns of any of the Persons described in
clause (i) or clause (ii) of this definition, and each of the Affiliates of any of the Persons
described in this clause (iii).

         “Sale Disclosures” has the meaning set forth in the Sale Procedures Order.

         “Sale Notice” has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(a).

       “Sale Order” means an order entered by the Bankruptcy Court or other court of
competent jurisdiction substantially in the form attached as Exhibit 1 to the Sale Procedures
Order, subject to (a) immaterial modifications or clarifications or (b) such other changes to
which Purchasers consent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or
delayed), in each case, solely to the extent permitted by or in compliance with the Sale
Procedures.

         “Sale Procedures” has the meaning set forth in the Sale Procedures Order.

        “Sale Procedures Order” means the Order Authorizing and Approving (I) Procedures for
Sale of Debtors’ Equity Interests in Anthropic, PBC; and (II) Sale(s) of Such Equity Interests in
Accordance With Such Procedures Free and Clear of Any Liens, Claims, Interests and
Encumbrances [D.I. 8215].

         “Sale Process Date” has the meaning set forth in Section 4.2(a).

         “Seller” has the meaning set forth in the Preamble.

        “Seller Parties” means, collectively, (i) Seller, (ii) each of the current or former Affiliates
of Seller, and (iii) each of the current or former officers, directors, employees, equityholders,
partners, stockholders, members, direct and indirect owners, managers, advisors, predecessors,
successors and assigns of any of the Persons described in clause (i) or clause (ii) of this
definition, and each of the Affiliates of any of the Persons described in this clause (iii).

         “Shares” means the Series B Preferred Stock of the Subject Company.

         “Subject Company” has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.

        “Subject Company Consent” means the consent of, and any other action as required
under the terms of the Operative Documents by, the Subject Company to the sale, assignment
and transfer of the Interests to Purchasers and any admission of Purchasers as shareholders of the
Subject Company.

       “Taxes” means any tax or similar duty, fee, charge or assessment thereof imposed by a
Governmental Entity, in each case in the nature of a tax, including any interest, penalties and
additions imposed with respect to such amount.

         “Termination Date” has the meaning set forth in Section 6.2.


                                                 A-4

4882-2525-3982 v.8
             Case 22-11068-JTD      Doc 16380-3       Filed 05/31/24      Page 46 of 48




         “Transactions” means the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.

       “Transfer Documents” means any assignment and assumption agreement and any other
instruments of transfer to be executed by Seller and each Purchaser at the applicable Closing, the
agreement among Seller, such Purchaser and the Subject Company which relates to the sale,
assignment and transfer of the Interests to such Purchaser, the admission or joinder (in respect of
the applicable Interests) of such Purchaser under the Operative Documents and the Subject
Company Consent, in a form reasonably satisfactory to Seller and such Purchaser.

         “Terminated Purchaser” has the meaning set forth in Section 6.2.

        “Transfer Taxes” means any transfer, documentary, sales, use, stamp, recording, value-
added, registration and other similar Taxes and all conveyance fees, recording fees and other
similar charges including any interest, penalties and additions imposed with respect to such
amount.

                           [Remainder of page intentionally left blank]




                                               A-5

4882-2525-3982 v.8
             Case 22-11068-JTD       Doc 16380-3    Filed 05/31/24    Page 47 of 48




                                         SCHEDULE A

                     Name of Purchaser               Interests (Number      Per Share Price
                                                         of Shares)
G Squared VI Holdco, LLC                                 4,499,325             $30.0045
Fund FG-BLU, a Series of Forge Investments LLC           2,266,141             $30.0045
Fund SCVC-PV-LXVI, a series of SCVC Advisors,
                                                          1,666,416            $30.0045
LP (Quickscope Investments)
Manius Invest Co Ltd (Damac Capital)                      1,666,416            $30.0045
Constitutional AI Fund, a Series of Abundance
                                                          1,067,760            $30.0045
Master Fund LLC (Collab LTSE)
Augment Collective, LLC Series Anthropic PBC 1            833,208              $30.0045
Gemini Ventures 1, LLC                                    416,604              $30.0045
MW LSVC Anthropic, LLC (Manhattan West)                   386,000              $30.0045
Constitutional AI Governance Fund 2 LLC                   371,430              $30.0045
GA-IP Opportunities II, LLC                               333,284              $30.0045
Elysium VC(N) LLC                                         333,283              $30.0045
KIP Re-Up II Fund (Korea Investment Partners Co.,
                                                          333,283              $30.0045
Ltd.)
A.G.P Alternative Investment Fund V- Series 1
                                                          283,058              $30.0045
LLC (Headwall)
Fund FG-AGV, a Series of Forge Investments LLC            132,734              $30.0045
TeleSoft-2020, LP                                         103,317              $30.0045
TeleSoft Capital, LLC                                     103,317              $30.0045
Green Book Ventures Horizon III LLC                        93,952              $30.0045
Scenic Co-Invest Anthropic LLC                             73,322              $30.0045
Scenic Private Access Fund I, L.P.                         66,656              $30.0045
Fund XLVIII, a series of SCVC Advisors, LP
                                                           23,822              $30.0045
(Quickscope Investments)
A.G.P Alternative Investment Fund IV- Series 4
                                                           20,021              $30.0045
LLC




                                             A-1

4882-2525-3982 v.8
             Case 22-11068-JTD     Doc 16380-3          Filed 05/31/24      Page 48 of 48




                                         SCHEDULE B

Subject Company                  Anthropic, PBC

Operative Documents              M-SAFE Purchase Agreement, dated October 5, 2021 as amended by that
                                 certain Amendment to M-SAFE Purchase Agreement dated March 4, 2022
                                 and that certain Amendment No. 2 to M-SAFE Purchase Agreement dated
                                 date as of April 27, 2022.

                                 M-SAFE, dated October 5, 2021.

                                 Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Anthropic, PBC,
                                 dated January 29, 2024.

                                 Amended and Restated Bylaws of Anthropic, PBC, effective March 30,
                                 2023.

                                 Amended and Restated Investors’ Rights Agreement, dated January 30,
                                 2024.

                                 Amended and Restated Right of First Refusal and Co-Sale Agreement, dated
                                 January 30, 2024.

                                 Amended and Restated Voting Agreement, dated January 30, 2024.




                                                  B-1



4882-2525-3982 v.8
Case 22-11068-JTD   Doc 16380-4    Filed 05/31/24   Page 1 of 74




                           Exhibit 4

                    Supporting Declarations
             Case 22-11068-JTD              Doc 16380-4         Filed 05/31/24         Page 2 of 74




                        IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                             FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

In re:                                                         Chapter 11

FTX TRADING LTD., et al.,1                                     Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)

         Debtors.                                              (Jointly Administered)

                                                               Ref. No. 8215

       DECLARATION OF BRUCE MENDELSOHN IN SUPPORT OF DEBTORS’
    PROPOSED SALE OF ANTHROPIC SHARES FREE AND CLEAR OF ANY LIENS,
                CLAIMS, INTERESTS AND ENCUMBRANCES

                  I, Bruce Mendelsohn, hereby declare as follows:

                  1.       I am a Partner in the Advisory Group at Perella Weinberg Partners L.P.

(“PWP”), a financial advisory firm that maintains an office at 767 5th Avenue, New York, New

York 10153, and the Debtors’ investment banker. PWP is a full-service investment banking firm

providing strategic and financial advisory services, including with respect to mergers and

acquisitions, capital raising and restructuring transactions across a broad range of industries.

PWP and its professionals have extensive experience with respect to the reorganization and

restructuring of distressed companies, both out of court and in Chapter 11 proceedings.

                  2.       I have been employed as a Partner of PWP since January 2016. I received

a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1984 from Emory University and a Master of Business

Administration in 1989 from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.




1
     The last four digits of FTX Trading Ltd.’s and Alameda Research LLC’s tax identification numbers are 3288
     and 4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of
     the Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A
     complete list of such information may be obtained on the website of the Debtors’ claims and noticing agent at
     https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd
     is Unit 3B, Bryson’s Commercial Complex, Friars Hill Road, St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda.
           Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-4       Filed 05/31/24     Page 3 of 74




               3.      Prior to joining Perella Weinberg Partners, I was a Partner at Goldman

Sachs where I worked from May 1998 to June 2015 and most recently served as Head of the

Americas Restructuring Group and part of the U.S. Leveraged Finance team. I was named a

Partner at Goldman Sachs in 2010. From 2006 to 2008, I served as Chief Underwriting Officer

for North America, where I was a member of Goldman Sachs’ Firmwide Capital Committee and

its Special Situations Specialty Lending Investment Committee. I served as Global Head of the

Special Assets and Bank Debt Portfolio groups from 2000 to 2008, and started at Goldman Sachs

in the Securities Division where I spent two years working on the distressed bond and bank loan

proprietary trading desks. Prior to Goldman Sachs, I worked for UBS and MJ Whitman in

restructuring and distressed securities, and began my career in finance at Lehman Brothers.

               4.      In addition to working with the Debtors in the above-captioned cases (the

“Chapter 11 Cases”), my experience includes representing companies, boards, creditors, and

other stakeholders in a variety of situations across a broad range of industries, including the

chapter 11 cases of: American Tire Distributors, Bonanza Creek, Breitburn Energy, Bristow

Group, California Resources Corporation, Chesapeake Energy, Cineworld Group, Crossmark

Holdings, Eco-Bat Technologies, Fieldwood Energy, Garret Motion, iHeart Communications,

LATAM Airlines, Memorial Production Partners, Pacific Drilling, Sanchez Energy Corporation,

Seadrill, Sears, Video Equipment Rental Corporation, Windstream, and 21st Century Oncology,

among others. In addition, while at Goldman Sachs, I was involved in the following bankruptcy

cases: Bridge Information Systems, Brothers Gourmet Coffees, Calpine, CRC Communications,

Focal Communications, General Growth Properties, Lehman Brothers, Network Plus, Nextel

International, Orchard Supply, Qwest Communications and 360 Networks.




                                                 -2-
             Case 22-11068-JTD            Doc 16380-4          Filed 05/31/24        Page 4 of 74




                 5.       I submit this declaration (this “Declaration”) in support of the Debtors’

proposed sale of the Anthropic Shares to the purchasers (each, a “Purchaser” and together, the

“Purchasers”) set forth in Exhibit 1 to the Notice of Proposed Sale of Anthropic Shares Free and

Clear of Liens, Claims, Interests and Encumbrances filed concurrently herewith (the “Sale

Disclosures Notice”) pursuant to the Order Authorizing and Approving (I) Procedures for Sale of

Debtors’ Equity Interests in Anthropic, PBC; and (II) Sale(s) of Such Equity Interests in

Accordance with Such Procedures Free and Clear of Any Liens, Claims, Interests and

Encumbrances [D.I. 8215] (the “Sale Procedures Order”)2.

                 6.       Except as otherwise indicated, all facts set forth in this Declaration are

based upon: (i) my personal knowledge, information and belief, or my opinion based upon

experience, knowledge and information concerning the Debtors; (ii) information learned from

my review of relevant documents; and/or (iii) information supplied by members of the Debtors’

management, employees of PWP working directly with me or under my supervision, direction or

control, and/or from the Debtors’ other professionals and advisors.

                 7.       I am over the age of 18 and authorized to submit this Declaration on

behalf of the Debtors. I am not being compensated for this testimony other than through

payments to be received by PWP as a professional the Debtors have retained; none of those

payments are specifically payable on account of this testimony. If I were called upon to testify, I

could and would testify competently to the facts set forth in this Declaration.

        A.       A Sound Business Justification Exists for the Sale.

                 8.       I believe that the entry of Clifton Bay Investments LLC (“Seller”) into the




2
    Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Sale
    Procedures Order.

                                                       -3-
             Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-4       Filed 05/31/24      Page 5 of 74




Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of May 31, 2024, between Seller and the Purchasers, a

copy of which is attached as Exhibit 3 to the Sale Disclosures Notice (the “Purchase and Sale

Agreement”), represents a sound exercise of the Debtors’ business judgment and is in the best

interests of the Debtors, their estates, creditors and other parties-in-interest.

        B.      The Sale Will Produce the Highest and Best Offer.

                9.      PWP was engaged by the Debtors effective November 16, 2022 to provide

financial advisory, restructuring, financing and sale services to the Debtors during these

Chapter 11 Cases. PWP has assisted the Debtors in their exploration and evaluation of strategic

alternatives to maximize the value of, and monetize, their diverse, global assets. This has

included a review of documents regarding the Debtors’ businesses and investments, discussions

with management of the Debtors, discussions with businesses in which the Debtors have made

investments, and coordinating and initiating discussions with potential purchasers.

                10.     Following a strategic review, PWP designed a process to market the

Anthropic Shares in an efficient and competitive sale process, taking into account the consent

rights of the board of directors of Anthropic over potential transfers and the Debtors’ business

judgment that a consensual sale process would maximize potential value. The process is also

consistent with the Sale Procedures set forth in the Sale Procedures Order.

                11.     In consultation with the Consultation Parties and Anthropic, PWP has

thoroughly and diligently marketed the Anthropic Shares to the maximum extent practicable

under the circumstances and conducted the related sale process in good faith and pursuant to the

Sale Procedures. Since February 2024, PWP has proactively reached out to more than 400

potential purchasers of the Anthropic Shares, 149 of which entered into confidentiality

agreements with the Debtors and received access to a virtual data room and 45 of which

submitted an indication of interest for purchasing a portion of the Anthropic Shares. Throughout

                                                  -4-
           Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-4       Filed 05/31/24      Page 6 of 74




the marketing and sale process, the Debtors, with the assistance of PWP, actively engaged with

interested parties, responded to diligence requests and duly considered all indications of interest

received based on the merits of each.

               12.     After reviewing the indications of interest in consultation with the

Consultation Parties and Anthropic, the Debtors decided to enter into the Purchase and Sale

Agreement, under which the 21 Purchasers agreed to purchase an aggregate number of

15,073,349 Anthropic Shares, which accounts for 100.0% of the Anthropic Shares held by the

Debtors, for an aggregate consideration of $452,268,300 (such aggregate consideration, the

“Purchase Price”, and such transaction, the “Sale Transaction”).

               13.     Based on my experience, involvement in the process and review of

available alternatives, it is my opinion that there is no better or higher offer currently available

for the Anthropic Shares to be purchased in the proposed sale, and that the Purchase and Sale

Agreement preserves the Debtors’ ability to consider any higher or better offer. I believe that all

interested potential purchasers have been afforded a full, fair and reasonable opportunity to

qualify as bidders and submit their highest or otherwise best offer to purchase the Anthropic

Shares. The Debtors considered all bids properly submitted in accordance with the Sale

Procedures on or before the deadline for bidding.

               14.     I also believe that the Debtors and PWP have complied in good faith with

the Sale Procedures Order and the Sale Procedures in marketing the Anthropic Shares. The

information provided to potential purchasers was sufficient to enable them to make an informed

judgment on whether to bid on the Anthropic Shares. The Purchase and Sale Agreement

includes the terms required by the Sale Procedures and the Sale Procedures Order. The Debtors

provided notice to, and consulted with, the Consultation Parties and Anthropic prior to entering



                                                  -5-
            Case 22-11068-JTD        Doc 16380-4       Filed 05/31/24      Page 7 of 74




into the Purchase and Sale Agreement. The disclosures made by the Debtors with respect to the

Purchase and Sale Agreement and the Sale Transaction were good, complete and adequate.

       C.      The Sale Will Produce a Fair and Reasonable Price for the Anthropic
               Shares.

               15.     I believe that the Purchase Price for the Anthropic Shares contemplated by

the Purchase and Sale Agreement is fair and reasonable. The Debtors, with the assistance of

PWP, ensured that the proposed sale of the Anthropic Shares would reflect their fair market

value by extensively marketing the Anthropic Shares.

               16.     Pursuant to the Purchase and Sale Agreement, the Purchase Price is

subject to higher or better offers from third parties in the form of an “Alternative Transaction”

and/or a “fiduciary out” which provides that the Purchase and Sale Agreement can be terminated

by the boards of directors (or similar governing bodies) of Seller if it is determined to be

inconsistent with the fiduciary duties of the boards of directors (or similar governing bodies). If

an Alternative Transaction is received by the Debtors, Seller has the right, but not the obligation,

to adjust the numbers of the Anthropic Shares allocated to the Purchasers, enter into an

alternative definitive agreement with respect to such Alternative Transaction or terminate the

Purchase and Sale Agreement.

               17.     I believe that completing the Sale Transaction in accordance with the

Purchase and Sale Agreement is the most efficient and cost-effective means of minimizing costs

to the estate while maximizing the value for the benefit of the estate and facilitated cooperation

with Anthropic. I believe that a longer process or the implementation of a public auction for the

sale of the Anthropic Shares at this time would not have resulted in a higher or better value to the

estate. The marketing process enabled the Debtors to reach out to a significant number of




                                                 -6-
            Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-4        Filed 05/31/24   Page 8 of 74




potential purchasers without incurring the additional costs, expenses, time and risks associated

with a public bidding and sale process.

               18.      In my role as the Debtors’ financial advisor, I advised the Debtors

throughout the sale process and based on my experience, I believe the Purchase and Sale

Agreement is the result of arm’s-length and good-faith negotiations between the parties thereto,

and that such negotiations were free of any collusion.

       D.      The Sale of the Anthropic Shares Should be Made Free and Clear of Any
               Liens, Including Successor Liability.

               19.      No Purchaser is a successor to or substantial continuation of the Debtors

or their estates and there is no continuity of enterprise between the Purchasers and the Debtors as

a result of any action taken in connection with the Sale Transaction. It is my understanding that

no Purchaser is holding itself out to the public as a continuation of the Debtors based on the Sale

Transaction or the Purchase and Sale Agreement. The Sale Transaction does not amount to a

consolidation, succession, merger, or de facto merger of any Purchaser and the Debtors and/or

the Debtors’ estates.

               20.      Moreover, I believe that not transferring the Anthropic Shares free and

clear of all Liens (other than Permitted Encumbrances) would adversely affect the Debtors’

efforts to maximize the value of the Anthropic Shares. I believe that the Purchasers would not

have entered into the Purchase and Sale Agreement and would not consummate the transactions

contemplated thereby if the sale of the Anthropic Shares was not free and clear of all Liens

(other than Permitted Encumbrances), or if the Purchasers would, or in the future could, be liable

for any such Anthropic Shares.




                                                 -7-
            Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-4       Filed 05/31/24     Page 9 of 74




       E.      The Release Should Be Approved.

               21.     It is my belief that the Release (as defined in the Sale Disclosures Notice)

should be approved. I believe that the inclusion of the Release is necessary for Anthropic to

consent to the Sale Transaction and the scope of the Release is appropriately tailored under the

facts and circumstances. The Release is: (a) a good faith settlement and compromise of the

claims, causes of action, liens, rights and remedies released by the Release; (b) in the best

interests of the Debtors and all holders of claims and interests; (c) fair, equitable and reasonable;

and (d) a bar to any of the Debtors or their estates asserting any claim or cause of action released

pursuant to the Release.

               22.     Accordingly, for the foregoing reasons, I believe that the Purchase and

Sale Agreement represents the highest and best offer for the Anthropic Shares at this time and

that the sale of the Anthropic Shares to the Purchasers pursuant to the Purchase and Sale

Agreement will provide a greater recovery for the Debtors’ estates than would be provided by

any other reasonably available alternative.

               Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1746, I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing

is true and correct to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.

               Dated: May 31, 2024.

                                                   /s/ Bruce Mendelsohn
                                                   Bruce Mendelsohn
                                                   Partner
                                                   Perella Weinberg Partners L.P.




                                                 -8-
            Case 22-11068-JTD             Doc 16380-4          Filed 05/31/24        Page 10 of 74




                        IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                             FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

In re:                                                        Chapter 11

FTX TRADING LTD., et al.,1                                    Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)

         Debtors.                                             (Jointly Administered)

                                                              Ref. No. 8125


    DECLARATION OF LORENZO ESPARZA IN SUPPORT OF DEBTORS’ PROPOSED
    SALE OF EQUITY INTERESTS IN ANTHROPIC, PBC TO MW LSVC ANTHROPIC,
         LLC FREE AND CLEAR OF ANY LIENS, CLAIMS, INTERESTS AND
                             ENCUMBRANCES

                  I, Lorenzo Esparza, hereby declare as follows:

                  1.       I am a Manager of MWSI VC Manager, LLC, a Delaware limited liability

company (“Manager”), which is the manager of MW LSVC Anthropic, LLC, a Delaware limited

liability company (“Purchaser”).

                  2.       I have held my position with the Manager since August 2021. In February

2024, I caused the Manager to organize Purchaser under the laws of the State of Delaware as a

limited liability company. I submit this declaration (this “Declaration”) in support of the

Debtors’ proposed sale of Anthropic Shares to Purchaser in accordance to the Order

(I) Authorizing and Approving Sale of Equity Interests in Anthropic, PBC Free and Clear of Any

Liens, Claims, Interests and Encumbrances; (II) Authorizing and Approving Entry Into, and

Performance Under, the Purchase and Sale Agreement; and (III) Granting Related Relief (the




1
     The last four digits of FTX Trading Ltd.’s and Alameda Research LLC’s tax identification number are 3288 and
     4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of the
     Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A complete
     list of such information may be obtained on the website of the Debtors’ claims and noticing agent at
     https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd is
     Unit 3B, Bryson’s Commercial Complex, Friars Hill Road, St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8D427133-0FA1-4447-82E9-4E3835DAFD2C
                         Case 22-11068-JTD             Doc 16380-4         Filed 05/31/24        Page 11 of 74




            “Order”).2 Except as otherwise indicated, all facts set forth in this Declaration are based upon

            (i) my personal knowledge, information and belief, or my opinion based upon experience,

            knowledge and information concerning Purchaser, and the negotiations relating to the Sale

            Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and/or (ii) information supplied by

            employees of Purchaser working with me and/or under my direct supervision in connection with

            the negotiations relating to the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

                              3.       I am over the age of 18 and authorized to submit this Declaration on

            behalf of Purchaser. I am not being compensated for this testimony other than through regular

            compensation in connection with my position at Purchaser; I received no payments specifically

            payable on account of this testimony. If I were called upon to testify, I could and would testify

            competently to the facts set forth in this Declaration.

                              4.       Purchaser is not an “insider” of the Debtors, as that term is defined in

            Section 101(31) of the Bankruptcy Code. There is no common identity of directors or

            controlling equity interest holders between Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors, on the

            other hand, and Purchaser does not control the Debtors in any respect. Purchaser negotiated the

            Sale Transaction with the Debtors and the Debtors’ financial advisors in good faith and from

            arm’s-length bargaining positions, at all times represented by competent counsel of its choosing.

            The Purchase and Sale Agreement and Sale Transaction were negotiated, proposed and entered

            into by Purchaser without collusion or fraud.

                              5.       Purchaser reviewed and complied, in all material respects, with the Sale

            Procedures and agreed to subject its offer for the sale of the Anthropic Shares to the Sale

            Procedures set forth in the Order.


            2
                 Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Order.



                                                                    -2-
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8D427133-0FA1-4447-82E9-4E3835DAFD2C
                        Case 22-11068-JTD            Doc 16380-4     Filed 05/31/24    Page 12 of 74




                             6.       Purchaser understood that the Debtors were free to negotiate with any

            other party interested in acquiring the Anthropic Shares during the time Purchaser and Seller

            were negotiating the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Purchaser has not

            engaged in any conduct that could, to my knowledge and understanding, result in the avoidance

            of the Sale Transaction or assessment of damages under section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code.

            Purchaser has not acted in a collusive manner with any person, and the purchase price for the

            Anthropic Shares to be purchased by Purchaser was not controlled by any agreement among

            Purchaser and Anthropic, PBC, or Purchaser and any other bidders or potential bidders.

                                      Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1746, I declare under penalty of perjury that the

            foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.

                             Dated: May 23, 2024.




                                                                Lorenzo D. Esparza
                                                                CEO-Manhattan West, Manager-MW LSV
                                                                Anthropic, LLC
                                                                MW LSV Anthropic, LLC




                                                               -3-
                Case 22-11068-JTD           Doc 16380-4         Filed 05/31/24        Page 13 of 74




                          IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                               FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

 InInre:re:                                                     Chapter
                                                                 Chapter1111
                           1 1
 FTX
  FTXTRADING
      TRADINGLTD.,
              LTD.,et et
                      al.,al.,                                 Case
                                                                CaseNo.
                                                                     No.22-11068
                                                                         22-11068(JTD)
                                                                                   (JTD)

              Debtors.
               Debtors.                                         (Jointly
                                                                 (JointlyAdministered)
                                                                          Administered)

                                                                Ref.
                                                                 Ref.No.
                                                                      No.8125
                                                                          8125


DECLARATION OF ADAM CRAWLEY IN SUPPORT OF DEBTORS’ PROPOSED SALE
 OF EQUITY INTERESTS IN ANTHROPIC, PBC TO AUGMENT COLLECTIVE, LLC
SERIES ANTHROPIC 1 FREE AND CLEAR OF ANY LIENS, CLAIMS, INTERESTS AND
                           ENCUMBRANCES
                   I, Adam Crawley, hereby declare as follows:
                    1.      I am a Manager of Augment Collective, LLC Series Anthropic 1, a

 Delaware limited liability company (“Purchaser”).

                    2.      I have held my position at Purchaser since February, 2024.

                    3.      I submit this declaration (this “Declaration”) in support of the Debtors’

 proposed sale of Anthropic Shares to Purchaser in accordance to the Order (I) Authorizing and

 Approving Sale of Equity Interests in Anthropic, PBC Free and Clear of Any Liens, Claims,

 Interests and Encumbrances; (II) Authorizing and Approving Entry Into, and Performance

 Under, the Purchase and Sale Agreement; and (III) Granting Related Relief (the “Order”).2

 Except as otherwise indicated, all facts set forth in this Declaration are based upon (i) my

 personal knowledge, information and belief, or my opinion based upon experience, knowledge




 1
      The last four digits of FTX Trading Ltd.’s and Alameda Research LLC’s tax identification number are 3288 and
      4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of the
      Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A complete
      list of such information may be obtained on the website of the Debtors’ claims and noticing agent at
      https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd is
      Unit 3B, Bryson’s Commercial Complex, Friars Hill Road, St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda.
 2
      Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Order.
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-4          Filed 05/31/24   Page 14 of 74




and information concerning Purchaser, and the negotiations relating to the Sale Transaction and

the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and/or (ii) information supplied by employees of Purchaser

working with me and/or under my direct supervision in connection with the negotiations relating

to the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

               4.      I am over the age of 18 and authorized to submit this Declaration on

behalf of Purchaser. I am not being compensated for this testimony other than through regular

compensation in connection with my position at Purchaser; I received no payments specifically

payable on account of this testimony. If I were called upon to testify, I could and would testify

competently to the facts set forth in this Declaration.

               5.      Purchaser is not an “insider” of the Debtors, as that term is defined in

Section 101(31) of the Bankruptcy Code. There is no common identity of directors or

controlling equity interest holders between Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors, on the

other hand, and Purchaser does not control the Debtors in any respect. Purchaser negotiated the

Sale Transaction with the Debtors and the Debtors’ financial advisors in good faith and from

arm’s-length bargaining positions, at all times represented by competent counsel of its choosing.

The Purchase and Sale Agreement and Sale Transaction were negotiated, proposed and entered

into by Purchaser without collusion or fraud.

               6.      Purchaser has been stockholders of Anthropic since April 2024 and owns

less than 1% of Anthropic on a fully diluted basis.

               7.      Purchaser reviewed and complied, in all material respects, with the Sale

Procedures and agreed to subject its offer for the sale of the Anthropic Shares to the Sale

Procedures set forth in the Order.




                                                 -2-
DocuSign Envelope ID: 04AE23B7-7BB0-4B76-8697-E636EC1EE184
                        Case 22-11068-JTD            Doc 16380-4     Filed 05/31/24    Page 15 of 74




                             8.       Purchaser understood that the Debtors were free to negotiate with any

            other party interested in acquiring the Anthropic Shares during the time Purchaser and Seller

            were negotiating the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Purchaser has not

            engaged in any conduct that could, to my knowledge and understanding, result in the avoidance

            of the Sale Transaction or assessment of damages under section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code.

            Purchaser has not acted in a collusive manner with any person, and the purchase price for the

            Anthropic Shares to be purchased by Purchaser was not controlled by any agreement among

            Purchaser and Anthropic, PBC, or Purchaser and any other bidders or potential bidders.

                                      Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1746, I declare under penalty of perjury that the

            foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.

                             Dated: May 29, 2024.




                                                                 Adam Crawley
                                                                 Manager
                                                                 Augment Collective, LLC Series Anthropic 1




                                                               -3-
              Case 22-11068-JTD           Doc 16380-4         Filed 05/31/24        Page 16 of 74




                       IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                            FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

In re:                                                        Chapter 11

FTX TRADING LTD., et al.,1                                   Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)

         Debtors.                                             (Jointly Administered)

                                                              Ref. No. 8125


   DECLARATION OF LAWRENCE P. BANCROFT IN SUPPORT OF DEBTORS’
PROPOSED SALE OF EQUITY INTERESTS IN ANTHROPIC, PBC TO GREEN BOOK
   VENTURES HORIZON III LLC FREE AND CLEAR OF ANY LIENS, CLAIMS,
                  INTERESTS AND ENCUMBRANCES

                 I, Lawrence P. Bancroft, hereby declare as follows:

                 1.       I am the Managing Member of Green Book Ventures Horizon III LLC, a

Delaware limited liability company (“Purchaser”).

                 2.       I have held the position of Managing Member at Green Book Ventures

Horizon III LLC since May 1st, 2024.

                 3.       I submit this declaration (this “Declaration”) in support of the Debtors’

proposed sale of Anthropic Shares to Purchaser in accordance to the Order (I) Authorizing and

Approving Sale of Equity Interests in Anthropic, PBC Free and Clear of Any Liens, Claims,

Interests and Encumbrances; (II) Authorizing and Approving Entry Into, and Performance

Under, the Purchase and Sale Agreement; and (III) Granting Related Relief (the “Order”).2

Except as otherwise indicated, all facts set forth in this Declaration are based upon (i) my



1
    The last four digits of FTX Trading Ltd.’s and Alameda Research LLC’s tax identification number are 3288 and
    4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of the
    Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A complete
    list of such information may be obtained on the website of the Debtors’ claims and noticing agent at
    https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd is
    Unit 3B, Bryson’s Commercial Complex, Friars Hill Road, St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda.
2
    Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Order.



167516623.3
              Case 22-11068-JTD      Doc 16380-4          Filed 05/31/24   Page 17 of 74




personal knowledge, information and belief, or my opinion based upon experience, knowledge

and information concerning Purchaser, and the negotiations relating to the Sale Transaction and

the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and/or (ii) information supplied by employees of Purchaser

working with me and/or under my direct supervision in connection with the negotiations relating

to the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

                 4.    I am over the age of 18 and authorized to submit this Declaration on

behalf of Purchaser. I am not being compensated for this testimony other than through regular

compensation in connection with my position at Purchaser; I received no payments specifically

payable on account of this testimony. If I were called upon to testify, I could and would testify

competently to the facts set forth in this Declaration.

                 5.    Purchaser is not an “insider” of the Debtors, as that term is defined in

Section 101(31) of the Bankruptcy Code. There is no common identity of directors or

controlling equity interest holders between Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors, on the

other hand, and Purchaser does not control the Debtors in any respect. Purchaser negotiated the

Sale Transaction with the Debtors and the Debtors’ financial advisors in good faith and from

arm’s-length bargaining positions, at all times represented by competent counsel of its choosing.

The Purchase and Sale Agreement and Sale Transaction were negotiated, proposed and entered

into by Purchaser without collusion or fraud.

                 6.    Purchaser reviewed and complied, in all material respects, with the Sale

Procedures and agreed to subject its offer for the sale of the Anthropic Shares to the Sale

Procedures set forth in the Order.

                 7.    Purchaser understood that the Debtors were free to negotiate with any

other party interested in acquiring the Anthropic Shares during the time Purchaser and Seller



                                                 -2-
167516623.3
DocuSign Envelope ID: 42E4E41C-830E-4EE1-879B-69A83387CF63
                          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-4     Filed 05/31/24    Page 18 of 74




            were negotiating the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Purchaser has not

            engaged in any conduct that could, to my knowledge and understanding, result in the avoidance

            of the Sale Transaction or assessment of damages under section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code.

            Purchaser has not acted in a collusive manner with any person, and the purchase price for the

            Anthropic Shares to be purchased by Purchaser was not controlled by any agreement among

            Purchaser and Anthropic, PBC, or Purchaser and any other bidders or potential bidders.

                                      Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1746, I declare under penalty of perjury that the

            foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.

                             Dated: 5/28/2024
                                   _______________.




                                                                Lawrence P. Bancroft
                                                                Managing Member
                                                                Green Book Ventures Horizon III LLC




                                                               -3-
            167516623.3
            Case 22-11068-JTD             Doc 16380-4         Filed 05/31/24        Page 19 of 74




                       IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                            FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

In re:                                                        Chapter 11

FTX TRADING LTD., et al.,1                                   Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)

         Debtors.                                             (Jointly Administered)

                                                              Ref. No. 8125


DECLARATION OF ARJUN GUPTA IN SUPPORT OF DEBTORS’ PROPOSED SALE
  OF EQUITY INTERESTS IN ANTHROPIC, PBC TO TELESOFT CAPITAL, LLC
FREE AND CLEAR OF ANY LIENS, CLAIMS, INTERESTS AND ENCUMBRANCES

                 I, Arjun Gupta, hereby declare as follows:

                 1.       I am the Managing Member of TeleSoft Capital LLC, a Delaware Limited

Liability Company (“Purchaser”).

                 2.       I have held my position at Purchaser since inception and for over ten

years.

                 3.       I submit this declaration (this “Declaration”) in support of the Debtors’

proposed sale of Anthropic Shares to Purchaser in accordance to the Order (I) Authorizing and

Approving Sale of Equity Interests in Anthropic, PBC Free and Clear of Any Liens, Claims,

Interests and Encumbrances; (II) Authorizing and Approving Entry Into, and Performance

Under, the Purchase and Sale Agreement; and (III) Granting Related Relief (the “Order”).2

Except as otherwise indicated, all facts set forth in this Declaration are based upon (i) my




1   The last four digits of FTX Trading Ltd.’s and Alameda Research LLC’s tax identification number are 3288 and
    4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of the
    Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A complete
    list of such information may be obtained on the website of the Debtors’ claims and noticing agent at
    https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd is
    Unit 3B, Bryson’s Commercial Complex, Friars Hill Road, St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda.
2   Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Order.
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-4          Filed 05/31/24   Page 20 of 74




personal knowledge, information and belief, or my opinion based upon experience, knowledge

and information concerning Purchaser, and the negotiations relating to the Sale Transaction and

the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and/or (ii) information supplied by employees of Purchaser

working with me and/or under my direct supervision in connection with the negotiations relating

to the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

               4.      I am over the age of 18 and authorized to submit this Declaration on

behalf of Purchaser. I am not being compensated for this testimony other than through regular

compensation in connection with my position at Purchaser; I received no payments specifically

payable on account of this testimony. If I were called upon to testify, I could and would testify

competently to the facts set forth in this Declaration.

               5.      Purchaser is not an “insider” of the Debtors, as that term is defined in

Section 101(31) of the Bankruptcy Code. There is no common identity of directors or

controlling equity interest holders between Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors, on the

other hand, and Purchaser does not control the Debtors in any respect. Purchaser negotiated the

Sale Transaction with the Debtors and the Debtors’ financial advisors in good faith and from

arm’s-length bargaining positions, at all times represented by competent counsel of its choosing.

The Purchase and Sale Agreement and Sale Transaction were negotiated, proposed and entered

into by Purchaser without collusion or fraud.

               6.      Purchaser is a new investor in Anthropic. TeleSoft-2020, LP a fund also

managed by Arjun Gupta is a stockholder of Anthropic since earlier this quarter Q2-2024 and

purchased approximately 167,000 shares at approximately $30 per share for a total purchase of

$5 million, which is <0.1% of Anthropic on a fully diluted basis.




                                                 -2-
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-4      Filed 05/31/24      Page 21 of 74




               7.      Purchaser reviewed and complied, in all material respects, with the Sale

Procedures and agreed to subject its offer for the sale of the Anthropic Shares to the Sale

Procedures set forth in the Order.

               8.      Purchaser understood that the Debtors were free to negotiate with any

other party interested in acquiring the Anthropic Shares during the time Purchaser and Seller

were negotiating the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Purchaser has not

engaged in any conduct that could, to my knowledge and understanding, result in the avoidance

of the Sale Transaction or assessment of damages under section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code.

Purchaser has not acted in a collusive manner with any person, and the purchase price for the

Anthropic Shares to be purchased by Purchaser was not controlled by any agreement among

Purchaser and Anthropic, PBC, or Purchaser and any other bidders or potential bidders.

                       Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1746, I declare under penalty of perjury that the

foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.

               Dated: May 25, 2024.




                                                  Arjun Gupta
                                                  Managing Member
                                                  TeleSoft Capital, LLC




                                                -3-
            Case 22-11068-JTD             Doc 16380-4         Filed 05/31/24        Page 22 of 74




                       IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                            FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

In re:                                                        Chapter 11

FTX TRADING LTD., et al.,1                                   Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)

         Debtors.                                             (Jointly Administered)

                                                              Ref. No. 8125


DECLARATION OF ARJUN GUPTA IN SUPPORT OF DEBTORS’ PROPOSED SALE
OF EQUITY INTERESTS IN ANTHROPIC, PBC TO TELESOFT-2020, LP FREE AND
     CLEAR OF ANY LIENS, CLAIMS, INTERESTS AND ENCUMBRANCES

                 I, Arjun Gupta, hereby declare as follows:

                 1.       I am Executive Manager of the General Partner of TeleSoft-2020, LP, a

Delaware Limited Partnership (“Purchaser”).

                 2.       I have been the Executive Manager of the General Partner at TeleSoft-

2020, LP since October 1, 2020 (which is the date of inception of the partnership).

                 3.       I submit this declaration (this “Declaration”) in support of the Debtors’

proposed sale of Anthropic Shares to Purchaser in accordance to the Order (I) Authorizing and

Approving Sale of Equity Interests in Anthropic, PBC Free and Clear of Any Liens, Claims,

Interests and Encumbrances; (II) Authorizing and Approving Entry Into, and Performance

Under, the Purchase and Sale Agreement; and (III) Granting Related Relief (the “Order”).2

Except as otherwise indicated, all facts set forth in this Declaration are based upon (i) my




1   The last four digits of FTX Trading Ltd.’s and Alameda Research LLC’s tax identification number are 3288 and
    4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of the
    Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A complete
    list of such information may be obtained on the website of the Debtors’ claims and noticing agent at
    https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd is
    Unit 3B, Bryson’s Commercial Complex, Friars Hill Road, St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda.
2   Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Order.
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-4          Filed 05/31/24   Page 23 of 74




personal knowledge, information and belief, or my opinion based upon experience, knowledge

and information concerning Purchaser, and the negotiations relating to the Sale Transaction and

the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and/or (ii) information supplied by employees of Purchaser

working with me and/or under my direct supervision in connection with the negotiations relating

to the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

               4.      I am over the age of 18 and authorized to submit this Declaration on

behalf of Purchaser. I am not being compensated for this testimony other than through regular

compensation in connection with my position at Purchaser; I received no payments specifically

payable on account of this testimony. If I were called upon to testify, I could and would testify

competently to the facts set forth in this Declaration.

               5.      Purchaser is not an “insider” of the Debtors, as that term is defined in

Section 101(31) of the Bankruptcy Code. There is no common identity of directors or

controlling equity interest holders between Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors, on the

other hand, and Purchaser does not control the Debtors in any respect. Purchaser negotiated the

Sale Transaction with the Debtors and the Debtors’ financial advisors in good faith and from

arm’s-length bargaining positions, at all times represented by competent counsel of its choosing.

The Purchase and Sale Agreement and Sale Transaction were negotiated, proposed and entered

into by Purchaser without collusion or fraud.

               6.      TeleSoft-2020, LP is a stockholder of Anthropic since earlier this quarter

Q2-2024, purchased approximately 167,000 shares at approximately $30 per share for a total

purchase of $5 million, which is <0.1% of Anthropic on a fully diluted basis.




                                                 -2-
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-4      Filed 05/31/24     Page 24 of 74




               7.      Purchaser reviewed and complied, in all material respects, with the Sale

Procedures and agreed to subject its offer for the sale of the Anthropic Shares to the Sale

Procedures set forth in the Order.

               8.      Purchaser understood that the Debtors were free to negotiate with any

other party interested in acquiring the Anthropic Shares during the time Purchaser and Seller

were negotiating the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Purchaser has not

engaged in any conduct that could, to my knowledge and understanding, result in the avoidance

of the Sale Transaction or assessment of damages under section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code.

Purchaser has not acted in a collusive manner with any person, and the purchase price for the

Anthropic Shares to be purchased by Purchaser was not controlled by any agreement among

Purchaser and Anthropic, PBC, or Purchaser and any other bidders or potential bidders.

                       Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1746, I declare under penalty of perjury that the

foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.

               Dated: May 24, 2024.




                                                  Arjun Gupta
                                                  Executive Manager of the General Partner
                                                  TeleSoft-2020, LP




                                                -3-
            Case 22-11068-JTD             Doc 16380-4         Filed 05/31/24        Page 25 of 74




                       IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                            FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

In re:                                                        Chapter 11

FTX TRADING LTD., et al.,1                                   Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)

         Debtors.                                             (Jointly Administered)

                                                              Ref. No. 8125


    DECLARATION OF ISHDEEP DUGAL IN SUPPORT OF DEBTORS’ PROPOSED
          SALE OF EQUITY INTERESTS IN ANTHROPIC, PBC TO GA-IP
       OPPORTUNITIES II, LLC FREE AND CLEAR OF ANY LIENS, CLAIMS,
                    INTERESTS AND ENCUMBRANCES

                 I, Ishdeep Dugal, hereby declare as follows:

                 1.       I am a General Partner of GA-IP Opportunities II, a Delaware limited

liability company”(“Purchaser”).

                 2.       I have held my General Partner position at Purchaser since January 22,

2024.

                 3.       I submit this declaration (this “Declaration”) in support of the Debtors’

proposed sale of Anthropic Shares to Purchaser in accordance to the Order (I) Authorizing and

Approving Sale of Equity Interests in Anthropic, PBC Free and Clear of Any Liens, Claims,

Interests and Encumbrances; (II) Authorizing and Approving Entry Into, and Performance

Under, the Purchase and Sale Agreement; and (III) Granting Related Relief (the “Order”).2

Except as otherwise indicated, all facts set forth in this Declaration are based upon (i) my



1
    The last four digits of FTX Trading Ltd.’s and Alameda Research LLC’s tax identification number are 3288 and
    4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of the
    Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A complete
    list of such information may be obtained on the website of the Debtors’ claims and noticing agent at
    https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd is
    Unit 3B, Bryson’s Commercial Complex, Friars Hill Road, St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda.
2
    Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Order.
          Case 22-11068-JTD           Doc 16380-4         Filed 05/31/24   Page 26 of 74




personal knowledge, information and belief, or my opinion based upon experience, knowledge

and information concerning Purchaser, and the negotiations relating to the Sale Transaction and

the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and/or (ii) information supplied by employees of Purchaser

working with me and/or under my direct supervision in connection with the negotiations relating

to the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

               4.      I am over the age of 18 and authorized to submit this Declaration on

behalf of Purchaser. I am not being compensated for this testimony other than through regular

compensation in connection with my position at Purchaser; I received no payments specifically

payable on account of this testimony. If I were called upon to testify, I could and would testify

competently to the facts set forth in this Declaration.

               5.      Purchaser is not an “insider” of the Debtors, as that term is defined in

Section 101(31) of the Bankruptcy Code. There is no common identity of directors or

controlling equity interest holders between Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors, on the

other hand, and Purchaser does not control the Debtors in any respect. Purchaser negotiated the

Sale Transaction with the Debtors and the Debtors’ financial advisors in good faith and from

arm’s-length bargaining positions, at all times represented by competent counsel of its choosing.

The Purchase and Sale Agreement and Sale Transaction were negotiated, proposed and entered

into by Purchaser without collusion or fraud.

               6.      GA-IP Opportunities II, LLC and certain other affiliated entities managed

by Purchaser have been stockholders of Anthropic since 2023 and own approximately 0.3% of

Anthropic on a fully diluted basis.




                                                 -2-
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-4      Filed 05/31/24     Page 27 of 74




               7.      Purchaser reviewed and complied, in all material respects, with the Sale

Procedures and agreed to subject its offer for the sale of the Anthropic Shares to the Sale

Procedures set forth in the Order.

               8.      Purchaser understood that the Debtors were free to negotiate with any

other party interested in acquiring the Anthropic Shares during the time Purchaser and Seller

were negotiating the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Purchaser has not

engaged in any conduct that could, to my knowledge and understanding, result in the avoidance

of the Sale Transaction or assessment of damages under section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code.

Purchaser has not acted in a collusive manner with any person, and the purchase price for the

Anthropic Shares to be purchased by Purchaser was not controlled by any agreement among

Purchaser and Anthropic, PBC, or Purchaser and any other bidders or potential bidders.

                       Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1746, I declare under penalty of perjury that the

foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.

               Dated: March 28, 2024.




                                                  Ishdeep Dugal
                                                  General Partner
                                                  GA-IP Opportunities II, LLC




                                                -3-
                Case 22-11068-JTD           Doc 16380-4         Filed 05/31/24        Page 28 of 74




                         IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                              FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

  In re:                                                       Chapter 11

  FTX TRADING LTD., et al., 1                                  Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)

           Debtors.                                            (Jointly Administered)

                                                               Ref. No. 8125


DECLARATION OF ZACHARY GRODKO IN SUPPORT OF DEBTORS’ PROPOSED SALE OF
EQUITY INTERESTS IN ANTHROPIC, PBC TO A.G.P ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND
    V- SERIES 1 LLC FREE AND CLEAR OF ANY LIENS, CLAIMS, INTERESTS AND
                              ENCUMBRANCES

                   I, Zachary Grodko, hereby declare as follows:

           1.      I am the Manager of A.G.P Alternative Investment Fund V- Series 1 LLC a

                   Delaware limited liability company (“Purchaser”).

                   2.       I have held my managing position at A.G.P Alternative Investment Fund

  V- Series 1 LLC since February 5th, 2021.

                   3.       I submit this declaration (this “Declaration”) in support of the Debtors’

  proposed sale of Anthropic Shares to Purchaser in accordance to the Order (I) Authorizing and

  Approving Sale of Equity Interests in Anthropic, PBC Free and Clear of Any Liens, Claims,

  Interests and Encumbrances; (II) Authorizing and Approving Entry Into, and Performance

  Under, the Purchase and Sale Agreement; and (III) Granting Related Relief (the “Order”). 2

  Except as otherwise indicated, all facts set forth in this Declaration are based upon (i) my



  1
      The last four digits of FTX Trading Ltd.’s and Alameda Research LLC’s tax identification number are 3288 and
      4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of the
      Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A complete
      list of such information may be obtained on the website of the Debtors’ claims and noticing agent at
      https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd is
      Unit 3B, Bryson’s Commercial Complex, Friars Hill Road, St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda.
  2
      Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Order.
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-4          Filed 05/31/24   Page 29 of 74




personal knowledge, information and belief, or my opinion based upon experience, knowledge

and information concerning Purchaser, and the negotiations relating to the Sale Transaction and

the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and/or (ii) information supplied by employees of Purchaser

working with me and/or under my direct supervision in connection with the negotiations relating

to the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

               4.      I am over the age of 18 and authorized to submit this Declaration on

behalf of Purchaser. I am not being compensated for this testimony other than through regular

compensation in connection with my position at Purchaser; I received no payments specifically

payable on account of this testimony. If I were called upon to testify, I could and would testify

competently to the facts set forth in this Declaration.

               5.      Purchaser is not an “insider” of the Debtors, as that term is defined in

Section 101(31) of the Bankruptcy Code. There is no common identity of directors or

controlling equity interest holders between Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors, on the

other hand, and Purchaser does not control the Debtors in any respect. Purchaser negotiated the

Sale Transaction with the Debtors and the Debtors’ financial advisors in good faith and from

arm’s-length bargaining positions, at all times represented by competent counsel of its choosing.

The Purchase and Sale Agreement and Sale Transaction were negotiated, proposed and entered

into by Purchaser without collusion or fraud.

               6.      Purchaser reviewed and complied, in all material respects, with the Sale

Procedures and agreed to subject its offer for the sale of the Anthropic Shares to the Sale

Procedures set forth in the Order.

               7.      Purchaser understood that the Debtors were free to negotiate with any

other party interested in acquiring the Anthropic Shares during the time Purchaser and Seller




                                                 -2-
          Case 22-11068-JTD        Doc 16380-4       Filed 05/31/24    Page 30 of 74




were negotiating the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Purchaser has not

engaged in any conduct that could, to my knowledge and understanding, result in the avoidance

of the Sale Transaction or assessment of damages under section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code.

Purchaser has not acted in a collusive manner with any person, and the purchase price for the

Anthropic Shares to be purchased by Purchaser was not controlled by any agreement among

Purchaser and Anthropic, PBC, or Purchaser and any other bidders or potential bidders.

                      Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1746, I declare under penalty of perjury that the

foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.

               Dated: May 24th, 2024.




                                                 Zachary Grodko
                                                 Manager
                                                 A.G.P Alternative Investment Fund V- Series
                                                 1 LLC




                                               -3-
                   Case 22-11068-JTD           Doc 16380-4         Filed 05/31/24        Page 31 of 74




                            IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                                 FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

     In re:                                                       Chapter 11

     FTX TRADING LTD., et al., 1                                  Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)

              Debtors.                                            (Jointly Administered)

                                                                  Ref. No. 8125


DECLARATION OF ZACHARY GRODKO IN SUPPORT OF DEBTORS’ PROPOSED SALE OF EQUITY
      INTERESTS IN ANTHROPIC, PBC TO A.G.P ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND
       IV- SERIES 4 LLC FREE AND CLEAR OF ANY LIENS, CLAIMS, INTERESTS AND
                                 ENCUMBRANCES

                      I, Zachary Grodko, hereby declare as follows:

              1.      I am the Manager of A.G.P Alternative Investment Fund IV- Series 4 LLC a

                      Delaware limited liability company (“Purchaser”).

                      2.       I have held my managing position at A.G.P Alternative Investment Fund

     IV- Series 4 LLC since February 5th, 2021.

                      3.       I submit this declaration (this “Declaration”) in support of the Debtors’

     proposed sale of Anthropic Shares to Purchaser in accordance to the Order (I) Authorizing and

     Approving Sale of Equity Interests in Anthropic, PBC Free and Clear of Any Liens, Claims,

     Interests and Encumbrances; (II) Authorizing and Approving Entry Into, and Performance

     Under, the Purchase and Sale Agreement; and (III) Granting Related Relief (the “Order”). 2

     Except as otherwise indicated, all facts set forth in this Declaration are based upon (i) my



     1
         The last four digits of FTX Trading Ltd.’s and Alameda Research LLC’s tax identification number are 3288 and
         4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of the
         Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A complete
         list of such information may be obtained on the website of the Debtors’ claims and noticing agent at
         https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd is
         Unit 3B, Bryson’s Commercial Complex, Friars Hill Road, St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda.
     2
         Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Order.
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-4          Filed 05/31/24   Page 32 of 74




personal knowledge, information and belief, or my opinion based upon experience, knowledge

and information concerning Purchaser, and the negotiations relating to the Sale Transaction and

the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and/or (ii) information supplied by employees of Purchaser

working with me and/or under my direct supervision in connection with the negotiations relating

to the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

               4.      I am over the age of 18 and authorized to submit this Declaration on

behalf of Purchaser. I am not being compensated for this testimony other than through regular

compensation in connection with my position at Purchaser; I received no payments specifically

payable on account of this testimony. If I were called upon to testify, I could and would testify

competently to the facts set forth in this Declaration.

               5.      Purchaser is not an “insider” of the Debtors, as that term is defined in

Section 101(31) of the Bankruptcy Code. There is no common identity of directors or

controlling equity interest holders between Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors, on the

other hand, and Purchaser does not control the Debtors in any respect. Purchaser negotiated the

Sale Transaction with the Debtors and the Debtors’ financial advisors in good faith and from

arm’s-length bargaining positions, at all times represented by competent counsel of its choosing.

The Purchase and Sale Agreement and Sale Transaction were negotiated, proposed and entered

into by Purchaser without collusion or fraud.

               6.      Purchaser reviewed and complied, in all material respects, with the Sale

Procedures and agreed to subject its offer for the sale of the Anthropic Shares to the Sale

Procedures set forth in the Order.

               7.      Purchaser understood that the Debtors were free to negotiate with any

other party interested in acquiring the Anthropic Shares during the time Purchaser and Seller




                                                 -2-
          Case 22-11068-JTD        Doc 16380-4       Filed 05/31/24    Page 33 of 74




were negotiating the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Purchaser has not

engaged in any conduct that could, to my knowledge and understanding, result in the avoidance

of the Sale Transaction or assessment of damages under section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code.

Purchaser has not acted in a collusive manner with any person, and the purchase price for the

Anthropic Shares to be purchased by Purchaser was not controlled by any agreement among

Purchaser and Anthropic, PBC, or Purchaser and any other bidders or potential bidders.

                      Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1746, I declare under penalty of perjury that the

foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.

               Dated: May 24th, 2024.




                                                 Zachary Grodko
                                                 Manager
                                                 A.G.P Alternative Investment Fund IV- Series
                                                 4 LLC




                                               -3-
            Case 22-11068-JTD             Doc 16380-4         Filed 05/31/24        Page 34 of 74




                       IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                            FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

In re:                                                        Chapter 11

FTX TRADING LTD., et al.,1                                   Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)

         Debtors.                                             (Jointly Administered)

                                                              Ref. No. 8125


  DECLARATION OF GRANT GEORGE IN SUPPORT OF DEBTORS’ PROPOSED
SALE OF EQUITY INTERESTS IN ANTHROPIC, PBC TO FUND FG-AGV, A SERIES
  OF FORGE INVESTMENTS LLC FREE AND CLEAR OF ANY LIENS, CLAIMS,
                   INTERESTS AND ENCUMBRANCES

                 I, Grant George, hereby declare as follows:

                 1.       I am Principal of Forge Global Advisors LLC, a Delaware limited liability

company.

                 2.       Forge Global Advisors LLC is the Adviser and Manager to Fund FG-

AGV, a Series of Forge Investments LLC (“Purchaser.”) I have held my Principal position at

Forge Global Advisors LLC since October 25, 2021.

                 3.       I submit this declaration (this “Declaration”) in support of the Debtors’

proposed sale of Anthropic Shares to Purchaser in accordance to the Order (I) Authorizing and

Approving Sale of Equity Interests in Anthropic, PBC Free and Clear of Any Liens, Claims,

Interests and Encumbrances; (II) Authorizing and Approving Entry Into, and Performance

Under, the Purchase and Sale Agreement; and (III) Granting Related Relief (the “Order”).2



1
    The last four digits of FTX Trading Ltd.’s and Alameda Research LLC’s tax identification number are 3288 and
    4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of the
    Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A complete
    list of such information may be obtained on the website of the Debtors’ claims and noticing agent at
    https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd is
    Unit 3B, Bryson’s Commercial Complex, Friars Hill Road, St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda.
2
    Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Order.




                                                                         Doc ID: ea90189c6b36d5abdb3804957f41e73836a085f4
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-4          Filed 05/31/24   Page 35 of 74




Except as otherwise indicated, all facts set forth in this Declaration are based upon (i) my

personal knowledge, information and belief, or my opinion based upon experience, knowledge

and information concerning Purchaser, and the negotiations relating to the Sale Transaction and

the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and/or (ii) information supplied by employees of Purchaser

working with me and/or under my direct supervision in connection with the negotiations relating

to the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

               4.      I am over the age of 18 and authorized to submit this Declaration on

behalf of Purchaser. I am not being compensated for this testimony other than through regular

compensation in connection with my position at Purchaser; I received no payments specifically

payable on account of this testimony. If I were called upon to testify, I could and would testify

competently to the facts set forth in this Declaration.

               5.      Purchaser is not an “insider” of the Debtors, as that term is defined in

Section 101(31) of the Bankruptcy Code. There is no common identity of directors or

controlling equity interest holders between Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors, on the

other hand, and Purchaser does not control the Debtors in any respect. Purchaser negotiated the

Sale Transaction with the Debtors and the Debtors’ financial advisors in good faith and from

arm’s-length bargaining positions, at all times represented by competent counsel of its choosing.

The Purchase and Sale Agreement and Sale Transaction were negotiated, proposed and entered

into by Purchaser without collusion or fraud.

               6.      Purchaser and certain other affiliated entities of Purchaser have been

stockholders of Anthropic since April 8, 2024, and own approximately 0.1807% of Anthropic on

a fully diluted basis. In connection with the Sale Transaction, Purchaser and Anthropic are

entering into a side letter agreement regarding confidentiality and certain other matters.




                                                 -2-

                                                                 Doc ID: ea90189c6b36d5abdb3804957f41e73836a085f4
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-4      Filed 05/31/24     Page 36 of 74




               7.      Purchaser reviewed and complied, in all material respects, with the Sale

Procedures and agreed to subject its offer for the sale of the Anthropic Shares to the Sale

Procedures set forth in the Order.

               8.      Purchaser understood that the Debtors were free to negotiate with any

other party interested in acquiring the Anthropic Shares during the time Purchaser and Seller

were negotiating the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Purchaser has not

engaged in any conduct that could, to my knowledge and understanding, result in the avoidance

of the Sale Transaction or assessment of damages under section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code.

Purchaser has not acted in a collusive manner with any person, and the purchase price for the

Anthropic Shares to be purchased by Purchaser was not controlled by any agreement among

Purchaser and Anthropic, PBC, or Purchaser and any other bidders or potential bidders.

                       Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1746, I declare under penalty of perjury that the

foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.

               Dated: May 28, 2024.




                                                  Grant George
                                                  Principal
                                                  Forge Global Advisors LLC, as the Adviser and
                                                  Manager to Fund FG-AGV, a Series of Forge
                                                  Investments LLC




                                                -3-

                                                               Doc ID: ea90189c6b36d5abdb3804957f41e73836a085f4
Case 22-11068-JTD   Doc 16380-4        Filed 05/31/24    Page 37 of 74




                    AGV Purchaser Declaration
                    _AGV__FTX_-_Anthr...5794-6798.2_.docx
                    ea90189c6b36d5abdb3804957f41e73836a085f4
                    MM / DD / YYYY
                      Signed




  05 / 28 / 2024    Sent for signature to Grant George
  11:06:03 UTC-7    (grant.george@forgeglobal.com) from
                    julia.servin@forgeglobal.com
                    IP: 170.85.70.179




  05 / 28 / 2024    Viewed by Grant George (grant.george@forgeglobal.com)
  11:24:12 UTC-7    IP: 104.28.56.17




  05 / 28 / 2024    Signed by Grant George (grant.george@forgeglobal.com)
  11:24:35 UTC-7    IP: 104.28.56.17




  05 / 28 / 2024    The document has been completed.
  11:24:35 UTC-7
             Case 22-11068-JTD             Doc 16380-4         Filed 05/31/24        Page 38 of 74




                        IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                             FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

In re:                                                         Chapter 11

FTX TRADING LTD., et al.,1                                    Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)

         Debtors.                                              (Jointly Administered)

                                                               Ref. No. 8125


    DECLARATION OF MICHAEL MILLER IN SUPPORT OF DEBTORS’ PROPOSED
    SALE OF EQUITY INTERESTS IN ANTHROPIC, PBC TO GEMINI VENTURES 1
        LLC FREE AND CLEAR OF ANY LIENS, CLAIMS, INTERESTS AND
                            ENCUMBRANCES

                  I, Michael Miller, hereby declare as follows:

                  1.       I am a manager of Gemini Ventures 1 LLC, a Delaware limited liability

company (“Purchaser”).

                  2.       I have held my manager position at Purchaser since May 28, 2024. I have

held my manager position at Gemini IDF 2, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, who is a

member of Purchaser, since May 22, 2023.

                  3.       I submit this declaration (this “Declaration”) in support of the Debtors’

proposed sale of Anthropic Shares to Purchaser in accordance to the Order (I) Authorizing and

Approving Sale of Equity Interests in Anthropic, PBC Free and Clear of Any Liens, Claims,

Interests and Encumbrances; (II) Authorizing and Approving Entry Into, and Performance

Under, the Purchase and Sale Agreement; and (III) Granting Related Relief (the “Order”).2



1
     The last four digits of FTX Trading Ltd.’s and Alameda Research LLC’s tax identification number are 3288 and
     4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of the
     Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A complete
     list of such information may be obtained on the website of the Debtors’ claims and noticing agent at
     https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd is
     Unit 3B, Bryson’s Commercial Complex, Friars Hill Road, St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda.
2
     Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Order.
           Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-4          Filed 05/31/24   Page 39 of 74




Except as otherwise indicated, all facts set forth in this Declaration are based upon (i) my

personal knowledge, information and belief, or my opinion based upon experience, knowledge

and information concerning Purchaser, and the negotiations relating to the Sale Transaction and

the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and/or (ii) information supplied by employees of Purchaser

working with me and/or under my direct supervision in connection with the negotiations relating

to the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

               4.      I am over the age of 18 and authorized to submit this Declaration on

behalf of Purchaser. I am not being compensated for this testimony other than through regular

compensation in connection with my position at Purchaser; I received no payments specifically

payable on account of this testimony. If I were called upon to testify, I could and would testify

competently to the facts set forth in this Declaration.

               5.      Purchaser is not an “insider” of the Debtors, as that term is defined in

Section 101(31) of the Bankruptcy Code. There is no common identity of directors or

controlling equity interest holders between Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors, on the

other hand, and Purchaser does not control the Debtors in any respect. Purchaser negotiated the

Sale Transaction with the Debtors and the Debtors’ financial advisors in good faith and from

arm’s-length bargaining positions, at all times represented by competent counsel of its choosing.

The Purchase and Sale Agreement and Sale Transaction were negotiated, proposed and entered

into by Purchaser without collusion or fraud.

               6.      Purchaser reviewed and complied, in all material respects, with the Sale

Procedures and agreed to subject its offer for the sale of the Anthropic Shares to the Sale

Procedures set forth in the Order.




                                                 -2-
          Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-4      Filed 05/31/24    Page 40 of 74




               7.     Purchaser understood that the Debtors were free to negotiate with any

other party interested in acquiring the Anthropic Shares during the time Purchaser and Seller

were negotiating the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Purchaser has not

engaged in any conduct that could, to my knowledge and understanding, result in the avoidance

of the Sale Transaction or assessment of damages under section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code.

Purchaser has not acted in a collusive manner with any person, and the purchase price for the

Anthropic Shares to be purchased by Purchaser was not controlled by any agreement among

Purchaser and Anthropic, PBC, or Purchaser and any other bidders or potential bidders.

                      Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1746, I declare under penalty of perjury that the

foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.

               Dated: May 28, 2024.




                                                 Michael Miller
                                                 Manager
                                                 Gemini Ventures 1 LLC




                                               -3-
              Case 22-11068-JTD             Doc 16380-4         Filed 05/31/24        Page 41 of 74




                         IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                              FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

In re:                                                          Chapter 11

FTX TRADING LTD., et al.,1                                     Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)

          Debtors.                                              (Jointly Administered)

                                                                Ref. No. 8125


     DECLARATION OF GRANT GEORGE IN SUPPORT OF DEBTORS’ PROPOSED
    SALE OF EQUITY INTERESTS IN ANTHROPIC, PBC TO FUND FG-BLU, A SERIES
      OF FORGE INVESTMENTS LLC FREE AND CLEAR OF ANY LIENS, CLAIMS,
                      INTERESTS AND ENCUMBRANCES

                   I, Grant George, hereby declare as follows:

                   1.       I am Principal of Forge Global Advisors LLC, a Delaware limited liability

company.

                   2.       Forge Global Advisors LLC is the Adviser and Manager to Fund FG-

BLU, a Series of Forge Investments LLC (“Purchaser.”) I have held my Principal position at

Forge Global Advisors LLC since October 25, 2021.

                   3.       I submit this declaration (this “Declaration”) in support of the Debtors’

proposed sale of Anthropic Shares to Purchaser in accordance to the Order (I) Authorizing and

Approving Sale of Equity Interests in Anthropic, PBC Free and Clear of Any Liens, Claims,

Interests and Encumbrances; (II) Authorizing and Approving Entry Into, and Performance

Under, the Purchase and Sale Agreement; and (III) Granting Related Relief (the “Order”).2



1
      The last four digits of FTX Trading Ltd.’s and Alameda Research LLC’s tax identification number are 3288 and
      4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of the
      Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A complete
      list of such information may be obtained on the website of the Debtors’ claims and noticing agent at
      https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd is
      Unit 3B, Bryson’s Commercial Complex, Friars Hill Road, St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda.
2
      Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Order.




                                                                           Doc ID: 1c38db44ca8783f67318a3ac79150152a5141a57
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-4          Filed 05/31/24   Page 42 of 74




Except as otherwise indicated, all facts set forth in this Declaration are based upon (i) my

personal knowledge, information and belief, or my opinion based upon experience, knowledge

and information concerning Purchaser, and the negotiations relating to the Sale Transaction and

the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and/or (ii) information supplied by employees of Purchaser

working with me and/or under my direct supervision in connection with the negotiations relating

to the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

               4.      I am over the age of 18 and authorized to submit this Declaration on

behalf of Purchaser. I am not being compensated for this testimony other than through regular

compensation in connection with my position at Purchaser; I received no payments specifically

payable on account of this testimony. If I were called upon to testify, I could and would testify

competently to the facts set forth in this Declaration.

               5.      Purchaser is not an “insider” of the Debtors, as that term is defined in

Section 101(31) of the Bankruptcy Code. There is no common identity of directors or

controlling equity interest holders between Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors, on the

other hand, and Purchaser does not control the Debtors in any respect. Purchaser negotiated the

Sale Transaction with the Debtors and the Debtors’ financial advisors in good faith and from

arm’s-length bargaining positions, at all times represented by competent counsel of its choosing.

The Purchase and Sale Agreement and Sale Transaction were negotiated, proposed and entered

into by Purchaser without collusion or fraud.

               6.      Purchaser and certain other affiliated entities of Purchaser have been

stockholders of Anthropic since April 8, 2024, and own approximately 0.1807% of Anthropic on

a fully diluted basis. In connection with the Sale Transaction, Purchaser and Anthropic are

entering into a side letter agreement regarding confidentiality and certain other matters.




                                                 -2-

                                                                 Doc ID: 1c38db44ca8783f67318a3ac79150152a5141a57
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-4      Filed 05/31/24     Page 43 of 74




               7.      Purchaser reviewed and complied, in all material respects, with the Sale

Procedures and agreed to subject its offer for the sale of the Anthropic Shares to the Sale

Procedures set forth in the Order.

               8.      Purchaser understood that the Debtors were free to negotiate with any

other party interested in acquiring the Anthropic Shares during the time Purchaser and Seller

were negotiating the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Purchaser has not

engaged in any conduct that could, to my knowledge and understanding, result in the avoidance

of the Sale Transaction or assessment of damages under section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code.

Purchaser has not acted in a collusive manner with any person, and the purchase price for the

Anthropic Shares to be purchased by Purchaser was not controlled by any agreement among

Purchaser and Anthropic, PBC, or Purchaser and any other bidders or potential bidders.

                       Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1746, I declare under penalty of perjury that the

foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.

               Dated: May 28, 2024.




                                                  Grant George
                                                  Principal
                                                  Forge Global Advisors LLC, as the Adviser and
                                                  Manager to Fund FG-BLU, a Series of Forge
                                                  Investments LLC




                                                -3-

                                                               Doc ID: 1c38db44ca8783f67318a3ac79150152a5141a57
Case 22-11068-JTD   Doc 16380-4        Filed 05/31/24    Page 44 of 74




                    BLU Purchaser Declaration
                    _BLU__FTX_-_Anthr...5794-6798.2_.docx
                    1c38db44ca8783f67318a3ac79150152a5141a57
                    MM / DD / YYYY
                      Signed




  05 / 28 / 2024    Sent for signature to Grant George
  11:07:00 UTC-7    (grant.george@forgeglobal.com) from
                    julia.servin@forgeglobal.com
                    IP: 170.85.70.179




  05 / 28 / 2024    Viewed by Grant George (grant.george@forgeglobal.com)
  11:24:49 UTC-7    IP: 104.28.56.17




  05 / 28 / 2024    Signed by Grant George (grant.george@forgeglobal.com)
  11:25:01 UTC-7    IP: 104.28.56.17




  05 / 28 / 2024    The document has been completed.
  11:25:01 UTC-7
             Case 22-11068-JTD             Doc 16380-4         Filed 05/31/24        Page 45 of 74




                        IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                             FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

In re:                                                         Chapter 11

FTX TRADING LTD., et al.,1                                    Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)

         Debtors.                                              (Jointly Administered)

                                                               Ref. No. 8125


    DECLARATION OF RYAN LOGUE IN SUPPORT OF DEBTORS’ PROPOSED SALE
    OF EQUITY INTERESTS IN ANTHROPIC, PBC TO CONSTITUTIONALAI FUND, A
       SERIES OF ABUNDANCE MASTER FUND LLC FREE AND CLEAR OF ANY
                LIENS, CLAIMS, INTERESTS AND ENCUMBRANCES

                  I, Ryan Logue, hereby declare as follows:

                  1.       I am a Manager of ConstitutionalAI Fund, a Series of Abundance Master

Fund LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“Purchaser”).

                  2.       I have been the Managing Member of LTA Advisors LLC, the Organizer

of ConstitutionalAI Fund, a Series of Abundance Master Fund LLC, since its formation in

August 2023.

                  3.       I submit this declaration (this “Declaration”) in support of the Debtors’

proposed sale of Anthropic Shares to Purchaser in accordance to the Order (I) Authorizing and

Approving Sale of Equity Interests in Anthropic, PBC Free and Clear of Any Liens, Claims,

Interests and Encumbrances; (II) Authorizing and Approving Entry Into, and Performance

Under, the Purchase and Sale Agreement; and (III) Granting Related Relief (the “Order”).2



1    The last four digits of FTX Trading Ltd.’s and Alameda Research LLC’s tax identification number are 3288 and
     4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of the
     Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A complete
     list of such information may be obtained on the website of the Debtors’ claims and noticing agent at
     https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd is
     Unit 3B, Bryson’s Commercial Complex, Friars Hill Road, St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda.
2    Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Order.
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-4          Filed 05/31/24   Page 46 of 74




Except as otherwise indicated, all facts set forth in this Declaration are based upon (i) my

personal knowledge, information and belief, or my opinion based upon experience, knowledge

and information concerning Purchaser, and the negotiations relating to the Sale Transaction and

the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and/or (ii) information supplied by employees of Purchaser

working with me and/or under my direct supervision in connection with the negotiations relating

to the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

               4.      I am over the age of 18 and authorized to submit this Declaration on

behalf of Purchaser. I am not being compensated for this testimony other than through regular

compensation in connection with my position at Purchaser; I received no payments specifically

payable on account of this testimony. If I were called upon to testify, I could and would testify

competently to the facts set forth in this Declaration.

               5.      Purchaser is not an “insider” of the Debtors, as that term is defined in

Section 101(31) of the Bankruptcy Code. There is no common identity of directors or

controlling equity interest holders between Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors, on the

other hand, and Purchaser does not control the Debtors in any respect. Purchaser negotiated the

Sale Transaction with the Debtors and the Debtors’ financial advisors in good faith and from

arm’s-length bargaining positions, at all times represented by competent counsel of its choosing.

The Purchase and Sale Agreement and Sale Transaction were negotiated, proposed and entered

into by Purchaser without collusion or fraud.

               6.      Affiliated entities managed by Purchaser have been a stockholder of

Anthropic since April 2024, and own approximately 0.1% of Anthropic on a fully diluted basis.




                                                 -2-
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-4      Filed 05/31/24     Page 47 of 74




               7.      Purchaser reviewed and complied, in all material respects, with the Sale

Procedures and agreed to subject its offer for the sale of the Anthropic Shares to the Sale

Procedures set forth in the Order.

               8.      Purchaser understood that the Debtors were free to negotiate with any

other party interested in acquiring the Anthropic Shares during the time Purchaser and Seller

were negotiating the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Purchaser has not

engaged in any conduct that could, to my knowledge and understanding, result in the avoidance

of the Sale Transaction or assessment of damages under section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code.

Purchaser has not acted in a collusive manner with any person, and the purchase price for the

Anthropic Shares to be purchased by Purchaser was not controlled by any agreement among

Purchaser and Anthropic, PBC, or Purchaser and any other bidders or potential bidders.

                       Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1746, I declare under penalty of perjury that the

foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.

               Dated: May 24, 2024.




                                                  Ryan Logue
                                                  Manager
                                                  ConstitutionalAI Fund, a Series of Abundance
                                                  Master Fund LLC




                                                -3-
             Case 22-11068-JTD             Doc 16380-4         Filed 05/31/24        Page 48 of 74




                        IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                             FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

In re:                                                         Chapter 11

FTX TRADING LTD., et al.,1                                    Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)

         Debtors.                                              (Jointly Administered)

                                                               Ref. No. 8125


    DECLARATION OF RYAN LOGUE IN SUPPORT OF DEBTORS’ PROPOSED SALE
       OF EQUITY INTERESTS IN ANTHROPIC, PBC TO CONSTITUTIONAL AI
      GOVERNANCE FUND 2 LLC FREE AND CLEAR OF ANY LIENS, CLAIMS,
                     INTERESTS AND ENCUMBRANCES

                  I, Ryan Logue, hereby declare as follows:

                  1.       I am a Manager of Constitutional AI Governance Fund 2 LLC, a Delaware

limited liability company (“Purchaser”).

                  2.       I have been the Managing Member of LTA Advisors LLC, the Organizer

of Constitutional AI Governance Fund 2 LLC, since its formation in August 2023.

                  3.       I submit this declaration (this “Declaration”) in support of the Debtors’

proposed sale of Anthropic Shares to Purchaser in accordance to the Order (I) Authorizing and

Approving Sale of Equity Interests in Anthropic, PBC Free and Clear of Any Liens, Claims,

Interests and Encumbrances; (II) Authorizing and Approving Entry Into, and Performance

Under, the Purchase and Sale Agreement; and (III) Granting Related Relief (the “Order”).2

Except as otherwise indicated, all facts set forth in this Declaration are based upon (i) my



1    The last four digits of FTX Trading Ltd.’s and Alameda Research LLC’s tax identification number are 3288 and
     4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of the
     Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A complete
     list of such information may be obtained on the website of the Debtors’ claims and noticing agent at
     https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd is
     Unit 3B, Bryson’s Commercial Complex, Friars Hill Road, St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda.
2    Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Order.
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-4          Filed 05/31/24   Page 49 of 74




personal knowledge, information and belief, or my opinion based upon experience, knowledge

and information concerning Purchaser, and the negotiations relating to the Sale Transaction and

the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and/or (ii) information supplied by employees of Purchaser

working with me and/or under my direct supervision in connection with the negotiations relating

to the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

               4.      I am over the age of 18 and authorized to submit this Declaration on

behalf of Purchaser. I am not being compensated for this testimony other than through regular

compensation in connection with my position at Purchaser; I received no payments specifically

payable on account of this testimony. If I were called upon to testify, I could and would testify

competently to the facts set forth in this Declaration.

               5.      Purchaser is not an “insider” of the Debtors, as that term is defined in

Section 101(31) of the Bankruptcy Code. There is no common identity of directors or

controlling equity interest holders between Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors, on the

other hand, and Purchaser does not control the Debtors in any respect. Purchaser negotiated the

Sale Transaction with the Debtors and the Debtors’ financial advisors in good faith and from

arm’s-length bargaining positions, at all times represented by competent counsel of its choosing.

The Purchase and Sale Agreement and Sale Transaction were negotiated, proposed and entered

into by Purchaser without collusion or fraud.

               6.      Purchaser has been a stockholder of Anthropic since April 2024, and own

approximately 0.1% of Anthropic on a fully diluted basis.

               7.      Purchaser reviewed and complied, in all material respects, with the Sale

Procedures and agreed to subject its offer for the sale of the Anthropic Shares to the Sale

Procedures set forth in the Order.




                                                 -2-
          Case 22-11068-JTD        Doc 16380-4       Filed 05/31/24    Page 50 of 74




               8.     Purchaser understood that the Debtors were free to negotiate with any

other party interested in acquiring the Anthropic Shares during the time Purchaser and Seller

were negotiating the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Purchaser has not

engaged in any conduct that could, to my knowledge and understanding, result in the avoidance

of the Sale Transaction or assessment of damages under section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code.

Purchaser has not acted in a collusive manner with any person, and the purchase price for the

Anthropic Shares to be purchased by Purchaser was not controlled by any agreement among

Purchaser and Anthropic, PBC, or Purchaser and any other bidders or potential bidders.

                      Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1746, I declare under penalty of perjury that the

foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.

               Dated: May 24, 2024.




                                                 Ryan Logue
                                                 Manager
                                                 Constitutional AI Governance Fund 2 LLC




                                               -3-
DocuSign Envelope ID: E99F5F40-F011-44DB-9444-FF18BBCD798C
                         Case 22-11068-JTD             Doc 16380-4         Filed 05/31/24        Page 51 of 74




                                    IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                                         FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

            In re:                                                         Chapter 11

            FTX TRADING LTD., et al.,1                                    Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)

                     Debtors.                                              (Jointly Administered)

                                                                           Ref. No. 8125


                DECLARATION OF MICHAEL SOBEL IN SUPPORT OF DEBTORS’ PROPOSED
                 SALE OF EQUITY INTERESTS IN ANTHROPIC, PBC TO SCENIC PRIVATE
                    ACCESS FUND I, L.P., FREE AND CLEAR OF ANY LIENS, CLAIMS,
                                 INTERESTS AND ENCUMBRANCES

                              I, Michael Sobel, hereby declare as follows:

                              1.       I am a Partner of Scenic Private Access Fund I, L.P., a Delaware limited

            liability company (“Purchaser”).

                              2.        I have held my Managing Partner position at Purchaser since June 16 of

            2021

                              3.       I submit this declaration (this “Declaration”) in support of the Debtors’

            proposed sale of Anthropic Shares to Purchaser in accordance to the Order (I) Authorizing and

            Approving Sale of Equity Interests in Anthropic, PBC Free and Clear of Any Liens, Claims,

            Interests and Encumbrances; (II) Authorizing and Approving Entry Into, and Performance

            Under, the Purchase and Sale Agreement; and (III) Granting Related Relief (the “Order”).2

            Except as otherwise indicated, all facts set forth in this Declaration are based upon (i) my



            1
                 The last four digits of FTX Trading Ltd.’s and Alameda Research LLC’s tax identification number are 3288 and
                 4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of the
                 Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A complete
                 list of such information may be obtained on the website of the Debtors’ claims and noticing agent at
                 https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd is
                 Unit 3B, Bryson’s Commercial Complex, Friars Hill Road, St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda.
            2
                 Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Order.
DocuSign Envelope ID: E99F5F40-F011-44DB-9444-FF18BBCD798C
                        Case 22-11068-JTD           Doc 16380-4       Filed 05/31/24   Page 52 of 74




            personal knowledge, information and belief, or my opinion based upon experience, knowledge

            and information concerning Purchaser, and the negotiations relating to the Sale Transaction and

            the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and/or (ii) information supplied by employees of Purchaser

            working with me and/or under my direct supervision in connection with the negotiations relating

            to the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

                             4.      I am over the age of 18 and authorized to submit this Declaration on

            behalf of Purchaser. I am not being compensated for this testimony other than through regular

            compensation in connection with my position at Purchaser; I received no payments specifically

            payable on account of this testimony. If I were called upon to testify, I could and would testify

            competently to the facts set forth in this Declaration.

                             5.      Purchaser is not an “insider” of the Debtors, as that term is defined in

            Section 101(31) of the Bankruptcy Code. There is no common identity of directors or

            controlling equity interest holders between Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors, on the

            other hand, and Purchaser does not control the Debtors in any respect. Purchaser negotiated the

            Sale Transaction with the Debtors and the Debtors’ financial advisors in good faith and from

            arm’s-length bargaining positions, at all times represented by competent counsel of its choosing.

            The Purchase and Sale Agreement and Sale Transaction were negotiated, proposed and entered

            into by Purchaser without collusion or fraud.

                             6.      [Purposefully omitted]

                             7.      Purchaser reviewed and complied, in all material respects, with the Sale

            Procedures and agreed to subject its offer for the sale of the Anthropic Shares to the Sale

            Procedures set forth in the Order.




                                                              -2-
DocuSign Envelope ID: E99F5F40-F011-44DB-9444-FF18BBCD798C
                        Case 22-11068-JTD           Doc 16380-4     Filed 05/31/24    Page 53 of 74




                             8.      Purchaser understood that the Debtors were free to negotiate with any

            other party interested in acquiring the Anthropic Shares during the time Purchaser and Seller

            were negotiating the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Purchaser has not

            engaged in any conduct that could, to my knowledge and understanding, result in the avoidance

            of the Sale Transaction or assessment of damages under section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code.

            Purchaser has not acted in a collusive manner with any person, and the purchase price for the

            Anthropic Shares to be purchased by Purchaser was not controlled by any agreement among

            Purchaser and Anthropic, PBC, or Purchaser and any other bidders or potential bidders.

                                     Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1746, I declare under penalty of perjury that the

            foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge, information, and belief.

                             Dated: May 28, 2024.




                                                               Michael Sobel
                                                               Managing Partner
                                                               Scenic Private Access Fund I, L.P.




                                                              -3-
DocuSign Envelope ID: E99F5F40-F011-44DB-9444-FF18BBCD798C
                         Case 22-11068-JTD             Doc 16380-4         Filed 05/31/24        Page 54 of 74




                                    IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                                         FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

            In re:                                                         Chapter 11

            FTX TRADING LTD., et al.,1                                    Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)

                     Debtors.                                              (Jointly Administered)

                                                                           Ref. No. 8125


                 DECLARATION OF MICHAEL SOBEL IN SUPPORT OF DEBTORS’ PROPOSED
                 SALE OF EQUITY INTERESTS IN ANTHROPIC, PBC TO SCENIC CO-INVEST
                ANTHROPIC LLC FREE AND CLEAR OF ANY LIENS, CLAIMS, INTERESTS AND
                                        ENCUMBRANCES

                              I, Michael Sobel, hereby declare as follows:

                              1.       I am a Partner of Scenic Co-Invest Anthropic LLC, a Delaware limited

            liability company (“Purchaser”).

                              2.        I have held my Managing Partner position at Purchaser since May of

            2024

                              3.       I submit this declaration (this “Declaration”) in support of the Debtors’

            proposed sale of Anthropic Shares to Purchaser in accordance to the Order (I) Authorizing and

            Approving Sale of Equity Interests in Anthropic, PBC Free and Clear of Any Liens, Claims,

            Interests and Encumbrances; (II) Authorizing and Approving Entry Into, and Performance

            Under, the Purchase and Sale Agreement; and (III) Granting Related Relief (the “Order”).2

            Except as otherwise indicated, all facts set forth in this Declaration are based upon (i) my



            1
                 The last four digits of FTX Trading Ltd.’s and Alameda Research LLC’s tax identification number are 3288 and
                 4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of the
                 Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A complete
                 list of such information may be obtained on the website of the Debtors’ claims and noticing agent at
                 https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd is
                 Unit 3B, Bryson’s Commercial Complex, Friars Hill Road, St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda.
            2
                 Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Order.
DocuSign Envelope ID: E99F5F40-F011-44DB-9444-FF18BBCD798C
                        Case 22-11068-JTD           Doc 16380-4       Filed 05/31/24   Page 55 of 74




            personal knowledge, information and belief, or my opinion based upon experience, knowledge

            and information concerning Purchaser, and the negotiations relating to the Sale Transaction and

            the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and/or (ii) information supplied by employees of Purchaser

            working with me and/or under my direct supervision in connection with the negotiations relating

            to the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

                             4.      I am over the age of 18 and authorized to submit this Declaration on

            behalf of Purchaser. I am not being compensated for this testimony other than through regular

            compensation in connection with my position at Purchaser; I received no payments specifically

            payable on account of this testimony. If I were called upon to testify, I could and would testify

            competently to the facts set forth in this Declaration.

                             5.      Purchaser is not an “insider” of the Debtors, as that term is defined in

            Section 101(31) of the Bankruptcy Code. There is no common identity of directors or

            controlling equity interest holders between Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors, on the

            other hand, and Purchaser does not control the Debtors in any respect. Purchaser negotiated the

            Sale Transaction with the Debtors and the Debtors’ financial advisors in good faith and from

            arm’s-length bargaining positions, at all times represented by competent counsel of its choosing.

            The Purchase and Sale Agreement and Sale Transaction were negotiated, proposed and entered

            into by Purchaser without collusion or fraud.

                             6.      [Purposefully omitted]

                             7.      Purchaser reviewed and complied, in all material respects, with the Sale

            Procedures and agreed to subject its offer for the sale of the Anthropic Shares to the Sale

            Procedures set forth in the Order.




                                                              -2-
DocuSign Envelope ID: E99F5F40-F011-44DB-9444-FF18BBCD798C
                        Case 22-11068-JTD           Doc 16380-4     Filed 05/31/24    Page 56 of 74




                             8.      Purchaser understood that the Debtors were free to negotiate with any

            other party interested in acquiring the Anthropic Shares during the time Purchaser and Seller

            were negotiating the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Purchaser has not

            engaged in any conduct that could, to my knowledge and understanding, result in the avoidance

            of the Sale Transaction or assessment of damages under section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code.

            Purchaser has not acted in a collusive manner with any person, and the purchase price for the

            Anthropic Shares to be purchased by Purchaser was not controlled by any agreement among

            Purchaser and Anthropic, PBC, or Purchaser and any other bidders or potential bidders.

                                     Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1746, I declare under penalty of perjury that the

            foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.

                             Dated: May 28, 2024.




                                                               Michael Sobel
                                                               Managing Partner
                                                               Scenic Co-Invest Anthropic LLC




                                                              -3-
           Case 22-11068-JTD             Doc 16380-4          Filed 05/31/24        Page 57 of 74




                       IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                            FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

In re:                                                       Chapter 11

FTX TRADING LTD., et al.,1                                   Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)

         Debtors.                                            (Jointly Administered)

                                                             Ref. No. 8125


DECLARATION OF MAHNSOON HWANG IN SUPPORT OF DEBTORS’ PROPOSED
SALE OF EQUITY INTERESTS IN ANTHROPIC, PBC TO KIP RE-UP II FUND FREE
   AND CLEAR OF ANY LIENS, CLAIMS, INTERESTS AND ENCUMBRANCES

                 I, Mahnsoon Hwang, hereby declare as follows:

                 1.       I am the Chief Executive Officer of Korea Investment Partners Co., Ltd.,

which serves as the General Partner (the “General Partner”) of KIP Re-Up II Fund, a fund

formed under the laws of the Republic of Korea (“Purchaser”).

                 2.       The General Partner is the representative of the Purchaser and serves as its

general partner since its formation in 2022. I have held my Chief Executive Officer position at

the General Partner since December 31, 2020.

                 3.       I submit this declaration (this “Declaration”) in support of the Debtors’

proposed sale of Anthropic Shares to Purchaser in accordance to the Order (I) Authorizing and

Approving Sale of Equity Interests in Anthropic, PBC Free and Clear of Any Liens, Claims,

Interests and Encumbrances; (II) Authorizing and Approving Entry Into, and Performance




1
    The last four digits of FTX Trading Ltd.’s and Alameda Research LLC’s tax identification number are 3288 and
    4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of the
    Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A complete
    list of such information may be obtained on the website of the Debtors’ claims and noticing agent at
    https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd is
    Unit 3B, Bryson’s Commercial Complex, Friars Hill Road, St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda.
            Case 22-11068-JTD             Doc 16380-4         Filed 05/31/24        Page 58 of 74




Under, the Purchase and Sale Agreement; and (III) Granting Related Relief (the “Order”).2

Except as otherwise indicated, all facts set forth in this Declaration are based upon (i) my

personal knowledge, information and belief, or my opinion based upon experience, knowledge

and information concerning Purchaser, and the negotiations relating to the Sale Transaction and

the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and/or (ii) information supplied by employees of Purchaser

working with me and/or under my direct supervision in connection with the negotiations relating

to the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

                 4.       I am over the age of 18 and authorized to submit this Declaration on

behalf of Purchaser. I am not being compensated for this testimony other than through regular

compensation in connection with my position at Purchaser; I received no payments specifically

payable on account of this testimony. If I were called upon to testify, I could and would testify

competently to the facts set forth in this Declaration.

                 5.       Purchaser is not an “insider” of the Debtors, as that term is defined in

Section 101(31) of the Bankruptcy Code. There is no common identity of directors or

controlling equity interest holders between Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors, on the

other hand, and Purchaser does not control the Debtors in any respect. Purchaser negotiated the

Sale Transaction with the Debtors and the Debtors’ financial advisors in good faith and from

arm’s-length bargaining positions, at all times represented by competent counsel of its choosing.

The Purchase and Sale Agreement and Sale Transaction were negotiated, proposed and entered

into by Purchaser without collusion or fraud.




2
    Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Order.



                                                       -2-
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-4      Filed 05/31/24    Page 59 of 74




               6.      Purchaser reviewed and complied, in all material respects, with the Sale

Procedures and agreed to subject its offer for the sale of the Anthropic Shares to the Sale

Procedures set forth in the Order.

               7.      Purchaser understood that the Debtors were free to negotiate with any

other party interested in acquiring the Anthropic Shares during the time Purchaser and Seller

were negotiating the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Purchaser has not

engaged in any conduct that could, to my knowledge and understanding, result in the avoidance

of the Sale Transaction or assessment of damages under section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code.

Purchaser has not acted in a collusive manner with any person, and the purchase price for the

Anthropic Shares to be purchased by Purchaser was not controlled by any agreement among

Purchaser and Anthropic, PBC, or Purchaser and any other bidders or potential bidders.

                      Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1746, I declare under penalty of pe1jury that the

foregoing is true and c01Tect to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.

               Dated: May 28, 2024.




                                                 Mahnsoon Hwang
                                                 Chief Executive Officer
                                                 KIP Re-Up II Fund
                                                 (General Paiiner: Korea Investment Partners Co.,
                                                 Ltd.)




                                                -3-
             Case 22-11068-JTD             Doc 16380-4          Filed 05/31/24        Page 60 of 74




                        IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                             FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

In re:                                                          Chapter 11

FTX TRADING LTD., et al.,1                                     Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)

         Debtors.                                               (Jointly Administered)

                                                                Ref. No. 8125


        DECLARATION OF LARRY ASCHEBROOK IN SUPPORT OF
    PROPOSED SALE OF EQUITY INTERESTS IN ANTHROPIC, PBC TO G SQUARED
    VI HOLDCO, LLC, FREE AND CLEAR OF ANY LIENS, CLAIMS, INTERESTS AND
                              ENCUMBRANCES

                  I, Larry Aschebrook, hereby declare as follows:

                  1.       I am an Authorized Representative of G Squared VI Holdco, LLC, a

Delaware limited liability company            Purchaser

                  2.       I have held my position at Purchaser since its formation in September

2022, and also serve as the Managing Partner of G Squared Equity Management LP, the manager

of the Purchase, and have held this position since its formation in May 2017.

                  3.                                             Declaration

proposed sale of Anthropic Shares to Purchaser in accordance to the Order (I) Authorizing and

Approving Sale of Equity Interests in Anthropic, PBC Free and Clear of Any Liens, Claims,

Interests and Encumbrances; (II) Authorizing and Approving Entry Into, and Performance
                                                                                                              2
Under, the Purchase and Sale Agreement; and (III) Granting Related Relief                           Order



1

     4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of the
     Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A complete

     https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd is

2
     Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Order.
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-4          Filed 05/31/24   Page 61 of 74




Except as otherwise indicated, all facts set forth in this Declaration are based upon (i) my

personal knowledge, information and belief, or my opinion based upon experience, knowledge

and information concerning Purchaser, and the negotiations relating to the Sale Transaction and

the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and/or (ii) information supplied by employees of Purchaser

working with me and/or under my direct supervision in connection with the negotiations relating

to the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

               4.      I am over the age of 18 and authorized to submit this Declaration on

behalf of Purchaser. I am not being compensated for this testimony other than through regular

compensation in connection with my position at Purchaser; I received no payments specifically

payable on account of this testimony. If I were called upon to testify, I could and would testify

competently to the facts set forth in this Declaration.

               5.

Section 101(31) of the Bankruptcy Code. There is no common identity of directors or

controlling equity interest holders between Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors, on the

other hand, and Purchaser does not control the Debtors in any respect. Purchaser negotiated the



     -length bargaining positions, at all times represented by competent counsel of its choosing.

The Purchase and Sale Agreement and Sale Transaction were negotiated, proposed and entered

into by Purchaser without collusion or fraud.

               6.      In connection with the Sale Transaction, Purchaser and Anthropic are

entering into a side letter agreement granting certain rights relating to information about

Anthropic.




                                                 -2-
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-4      Filed 05/31/24     Page 62 of 74




               7.      Purchaser reviewed and complied, in all material respects, with the Sale

Procedures and agreed to subject its offer for the sale of the Anthropic Shares to the Sale

Procedures set forth in the Order.

               8.      Purchaser understood that the Debtors were free to negotiate with any

other party interested in acquiring the Anthropic Shares during the time Purchaser and Seller

were negotiating the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Purchaser has not

engaged in any conduct that could, to my knowledge and understanding, result in the avoidance

of the Sale Transaction or assessment of damages under section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code.

Purchaser has not acted in a collusive manner with any person, and the purchase price for the

Anthropic Shares to be purchased by Purchaser was not controlled by any agreement among

Purchaser and Anthropic, PBC, or Purchaser and any other bidders or potential bidders.

                       Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1746, I declare under penalty of perjury that the

foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.

               Dated: May 23, 2024.




                                                  Larry Aschebrook
                                                  Authorized Representative
                                                  G Squared VI Holdco, LLC




                                                -3-
            Case 22-11068-JTD             Doc 16380-4         Filed 05/31/24        Page 63 of 74




                       IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                            FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

In re:                                                        Chapter 11

FTX TRADING LTD., et al.,1                                   Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)

         Debtors.                                             (Jointly Administered)

                                                              Ref. No. 8125


DECLARATION OF FUND XLVIII, A SERIES OF SCVC ADVISORS, LP IN SUPPORT
OF DEBTORS’ PROPOSED SALE OF EQUITY INTERESTS IN ANTHROPIC, PBC TO
  FUND XLVIII, A SERIES OF SCVC ADVISORS, LP FREE AND CLEAR OF ANY
            LIENS, CLAIMS, INTERESTS AND ENCUMBRANCES

                 I, Amrit Saxena, hereby declare as follows:

                 1.       I am a Manager of Fund XLVIII, a series of SCVC Advisors, LP, a

Delaware Limited Partnership (“Purchaser”).

                 2.       I have held my Manager position at Purchaser since November 7, 2023.

                 3.       I submit this declaration (this “Declaration”) in support of the Debtors’

proposed sale of Anthropic Shares to Purchaser in accordance to the Order (I) Authorizing and

Approving Sale of Equity Interests in Anthropic, PBC Free and Clear of Any Liens, Claims,

Interests and Encumbrances; (II) Authorizing and Approving Entry Into, and Performance

Under, the Purchase and Sale Agreement; and (III) Granting Related Relief (the “Order”).2

Except as otherwise indicated, all facts set forth in this Declaration are based upon (i) my

personal knowledge, information and belief, or my opinion based upon experience, knowledge



1
    The last four digits of FTX Trading Ltd.’s and Alameda Research LLC’s tax identification number are 3288 and
    4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of the
    Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A complete
    list of such information may be obtained on the website of the Debtors’ claims and noticing agent at
    https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd is
    Unit 3B, Bryson’s Commercial Complex, Friars Hill Road, St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda.
2
    Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Order.
           Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-4          Filed 05/31/24   Page 64 of 74




and information concerning Purchaser, and the negotiations relating to the Sale Transaction and

the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and/or (ii) information supplied by employees of Purchaser

working with me and/or under my direct supervision in connection with the negotiations relating

to the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

                4.     I am over the age of 18 and authorized to submit this Declaration on

behalf of Purchaser. I am not being compensated for this testimony other than through regular

compensation in connection with my position at Purchaser; I received no payments specifically

payable on account of this testimony. If I were called upon to testify, I could and would testify

competently to the facts set forth in this Declaration.

                5.     Purchaser is not an “insider” of the Debtors, as that term is defined in

Section 101(31) of the Bankruptcy Code. There is no common identity of directors or

controlling equity interest holders between Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors, on the

other hand, and Purchaser does not control the Debtors in any respect. Purchaser negotiated the

Sale Transaction with the Debtors and the Debtors’ financial advisors in good faith and from

arm’s-length bargaining positions, at all times represented by competent counsel of its choosing.

The Purchase and Sale Agreement and Sale Transaction were negotiated, proposed and entered

into by Purchaser without collusion or fraud.

                6.     Purchaser and certain other affiliated entities managed by Purchaser have

been stockholders of Anthropic since 2023 and own approximately 0.06% of Anthropic on a

fully diluted basis.

                7.     Purchaser reviewed and complied, in all material respects, with the Sale

Procedures and agreed to subject its offer for the sale of the Anthropic Shares to the Sale

Procedures set forth in the Order.




                                                 -2-
          Case 22-11068-JTD        Doc 16380-4       Filed 05/31/24      Page 65 of 74




               8.     Purchaser understood that the Debtors were free to negotiate with any

other party interested in acquiring the Anthropic Shares during the time Purchaser and Seller

were negotiating the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Purchaser has not

engaged in any conduct that could, to my knowledge and understanding, result in the avoidance

of the Sale Transaction or assessment of damages under section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code.

Purchaser has not acted in a collusive manner with any person, and the purchase price for the

Anthropic Shares to be purchased by Purchaser was not controlled by any agreement among

Purchaser and Anthropic, PBC, or Purchaser and any other bidders or potential bidders.

                      Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1746, I declare under penalty of perjury that the

foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.

               Dated: May 29, 2024.




                                                Amrit Saxena
                                                Manager
                                                Fund XLVIII, a series of SCVC Advisors, LP




                                               -3-
             Case 22-11068-JTD             Doc 16380-4         Filed 05/31/24        Page 66 of 74




                        IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                             FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

In re:                                                         Chapter 11

FTX TRADING LTD., et al.,1                                    Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)

         Debtors.                                              (Jointly Administered)

                                                               Ref. No. 8125


    DECLARATION OF FUND SCVC-PV-LXVI, A SERIES OF SCVC ADVISORS, LP IN
        SUPPORT OF DEBTORS’ PROPOSED SALE OF EQUITY INTERESTS IN
    ANTHROPIC, PBC TO FUND SCVC-PV-LXVI, A SERIES OF SCVC ADVISORS, LP
    FREE AND CLEAR OF ANY LIENS, CLAIMS, INTERESTS AND ENCUMBRANCES

                  I, Amrit Saxena, hereby declare as follows:

                  1.       I am a Manager of Fund SCVC-PV-LXVI, a series of SCVC Advisors,

LP, a Delaware Limited Partnership (“Purchaser”).

                  2.       I have held my Manager position at Purchaser since November 7, 2023.

                  3.       I submit this declaration (this “Declaration”) in support of the Debtors’

proposed sale of Anthropic Shares to Purchaser in accordance to the Order (I) Authorizing and

Approving Sale of Equity Interests in Anthropic, PBC Free and Clear of Any Liens, Claims,

Interests and Encumbrances; (II) Authorizing and Approving Entry Into, and Performance

Under, the Purchase and Sale Agreement; and (III) Granting Related Relief (the “Order”).2

Except as otherwise indicated, all facts set forth in this Declaration are based upon (i) my

personal knowledge, information and belief, or my opinion based upon experience, knowledge



1
     The last four digits of FTX Trading Ltd.’s and Alameda Research LLC’s tax identification number are 3288 and
     4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of the
     Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A complete
     list of such information may be obtained on the website of the Debtors’ claims and noticing agent at
     https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd is
     Unit 3B, Bryson’s Commercial Complex, Friars Hill Road, St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda.
2
     Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Order.
           Case 22-11068-JTD         Doc 16380-4          Filed 05/31/24   Page 67 of 74




and information concerning Purchaser, and the negotiations relating to the Sale Transaction and

the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and/or (ii) information supplied by employees of Purchaser

working with me and/or under my direct supervision in connection with the negotiations relating

to the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

                4.     I am over the age of 18 and authorized to submit this Declaration on

behalf of Purchaser. I am not being compensated for this testimony other than through regular

compensation in connection with my position at Purchaser; I received no payments specifically

payable on account of this testimony. If I were called upon to testify, I could and would testify

competently to the facts set forth in this Declaration.

                5.     Purchaser is not an “insider” of the Debtors, as that term is defined in

Section 101(31) of the Bankruptcy Code. There is no common identity of directors or

controlling equity interest holders between Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors, on the

other hand, and Purchaser does not control the Debtors in any respect. Purchaser negotiated the

Sale Transaction with the Debtors and the Debtors’ financial advisors in good faith and from

arm’s-length bargaining positions, at all times represented by competent counsel of its choosing.

The Purchase and Sale Agreement and Sale Transaction were negotiated, proposed and entered

into by Purchaser without collusion or fraud.

                6.     Purchaser and certain other affiliated entities managed by Purchaser have

been stockholders of Anthropic since 2023 and own approximately 0.06% of Anthropic on a

fully diluted basis.

                7.     Purchaser reviewed and complied, in all material respects, with the Sale

Procedures and agreed to subject its offer for the sale of the Anthropic Shares to the Sale

Procedures set forth in the Order.




                                                 -2-
          Case 22-11068-JTD        Doc 16380-4       Filed 05/31/24    Page 68 of 74




               8.     Purchaser understood that the Debtors were free to negotiate with any

other party interested in acquiring the Anthropic Shares during the time Purchaser and Seller

were negotiating the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Purchaser has not

engaged in any conduct that could, to my knowledge and understanding, result in the avoidance

of the Sale Transaction or assessment of damages under section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code.

Purchaser has not acted in a collusive manner with any person, and the purchase price for the

Anthropic Shares to be purchased by Purchaser was not controlled by any agreement among

Purchaser and Anthropic, PBC, or Purchaser and any other bidders or potential bidders.

                      Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1746, I declare under penalty of perjury that the

foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.

               Dated: May 29, 2024.




                                                Amrit Saxena
                                                Manager
                                                Fund SCVC-PV-LXVI, a series of SCVC Advisors, LP




                                               -3-
             Case 22-11068-JTD             Doc 16380-4         Filed 05/31/24        Page 69 of 74




                        IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                             FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

In re:                                                        Chapter 11

FTX TRADING LTD., et al., 1                                   Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)

         Debtors.                                             (Jointly Administered)

                                                              Ref. No. 8125


     DECLARATION OF BARRY J. COHEN IN SUPPORT OF DEBTORS’ PROPOSED
     SALE OF EQUITY INTERESTS IN ANTHROPIC, PBC TO ELYSIUM VC (N) LLC
    FREE AND CLEAR OF ANY LIENS, CLAIMS, INTERESTS AND ENCUMBRANCES

                  I, Barry J. Cohen, hereby declare as follows:

                  1.       I am the President of Elysium Management LLC (“Elysium”), the current

Member and Managing Member of Elysium VC (N) LLC, a Delaware limited liability company

(“Purchaser”).

                  2.       I have been the President of Elysium since February 16, 2017.

                  3.       I submit this declaration (this “Declaration”) in support of the Debtors’

proposed sale of Anthropic Shares to Purchaser in accordance to the Order (I) Authorizing and

Approving Sale of Equity Interests in Anthropic, PBC Free and Clear of Any Liens, Claims,

Interests and Encumbrances; (II) Authorizing and Approving Entry Into, and Performance

Under, the Purchase and Sale Agreement; and (III) Granting Related Relief (the “Order”). 2

Except as otherwise indicated, all facts set forth in this Declaration are based upon (i) my




1
     The last four digits of FTX Trading Ltd.’s and Alameda Research LLC’s tax identification number are 3288 and
     4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of the
     Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A complete
     list of such information may be obtained on the website of the Debtors’ claims and noticing agent at
     https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd is
     Unit 3B, Bryson’s Commercial Complex, Friars Hill Road, St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda.
2
     Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Order.
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-4          Filed 05/31/24   Page 70 of 74




personal knowledge, information and belief, or my opinion based upon experience, knowledge

and information concerning Purchaser, and the negotiations relating to the Sale Transaction and

the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and/or (ii) information supplied by employees of Elysium

working with me and/or under my direct supervision in connection with the negotiations relating

to the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

               4.      I am over the age of 18 and authorized to submit this Declaration on

behalf of Purchaser. I am not being compensated for this testimony other than through regular

compensation in connection with my position at Elysium; I received no payments specifically

payable on account of this testimony. If I were called upon to testify, I could and would testify

competently to the facts set forth in this Declaration.

               5.      Purchaser is not an “insider” of the Debtors, as that term is defined in

Section 101(31) of the Bankruptcy Code. There is no common identity of directors or

controlling equity interest holders between Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors, on the

other hand, and Purchaser does not control the Debtors in any respect. Purchaser, through

Elysium, negotiated the Sale Transaction with the Debtors and the Debtors’ financial advisors in

good faith and from arm’s-length bargaining positions, at all times represented by competent

counsel of its choosing. The Purchase and Sale Agreement and Sale Transaction were negotiated,

proposed and entered into by Purchaser without collusion or fraud.

               6.      Purchaser reviewed and complied, in all material respects, with the Sale

Procedures and agreed to subject its offer for the sale of the Anthropic Shares to the Sale

Procedures set forth in the Order.

               7.      Purchaser understood that the Debtors were free to negotiate with any

other party interested in acquiring the Anthropic Shares during the time Purchaser and Seller




                                                 -2-
          Case 22-11068-JTD        Doc 16380-4       Filed 05/31/24    Page 71 of 74




were negotiating the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Purchaser has not

engaged in any conduct that could, to my knowledge and understanding, result in the avoidance

of the Sale Transaction or assessment of damages under section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code.

Purchaser has not acted in a collusive manner with any person, and the purchase price for the

Anthropic Shares to be purchased by Purchaser was not controlled by any agreement among

Purchaser and Anthropic, PBC, or Purchaser and any other bidders or potential bidders.

                      Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1746, I declare under penalty of perjury that the

foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.

               Dated: May 27, 2024.




                                                 Barry J. Cohen
                                                 President, Elysium Management LLC,
                                                 Managing Member of Elysium VC (N) LLC




                                               -3-
             Case 22-11068-JTD             Doc 16380-4         Filed 05/31/24        Page 72 of 74




                        IN THE UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
                             FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

In re:                                                         Chapter 11

FTX TRADING LTD., et al.,1                                    Case No. 22-11068 (JTD)

         Debtors.                                              (Jointly Administered)

                                                               Ref. No. 8125


       DECLARATION OF ESSA M A A H IBRAHIM IN SUPPORT OF DEBTORS’
     PROPOSED SALE OF EQUITY INTERESTS IN ANTHROPIC, PBC TO MANIUS
    INVEST CO LTD FREE AND CLEAR OF ANY LIENS, CLAIMS, INTERESTS AND
                            ENCUMBRANCES

                  I, Essa M A A H Ibrahim, hereby declare as follows:

                  1.       I am a Director of Manius Invest Co Ltd, a BVI Business Company

limited by shares (“Purchaser”).

                  2.       I was appointed a director in the Purchaser on 30 April 2024 and I have

held a position as a Director in the parent company of the Purchaser, Damac Capital Ltd., since 9

February 2020.

                  3.       I submit this declaration (this “Declaration”) in support of the Debtors’

proposed sale of Anthropic Shares to Purchaser in accordance to the Order (I) Authorizing and

Approving Sale of Equity Interests in Anthropic, PBC Free and Clear of Any Liens, Claims,

Interests and Encumbrances; (II) Authorizing and Approving Entry Into, and Performance

Under, the Purchase and Sale Agreement; and (III) Granting Related Relief (the “Order”).2



1
     The last four digits of FTX Trading Ltd.’s and Alameda Research LLC’s tax identification number are 3288 and
     4063 respectively. Due to the large number of debtor entities in these Chapter 11 Cases, a complete list of the
     Debtors and the last four digits of their federal tax identification numbers is not provided herein. A complete
     list of such information may be obtained on the website of the Debtors’ claims and noticing agent at
     https://cases.ra.kroll.com/FTX. The principal place of business of Debtor Emergent Fidelity Technologies Ltd is
     Unit 3B, Bryson’s Commercial Complex, Friars Hill Road, St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda.
2
     Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Order.
          Case 22-11068-JTD          Doc 16380-4          Filed 05/31/24   Page 73 of 74




Except as otherwise indicated, all facts set forth in this Declaration are based upon (i) my

personal knowledge, information and belief, or my opinion based upon experience, knowledge

and information concerning Purchaser, and the negotiations relating to the Sale Transaction and

the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and/or (ii) information supplied by employees of Purchaser

working with me and/or under my direct supervision in connection with the negotiations relating

to the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement.

               4.      I am over the age of 18 and authorized to submit this Declaration on

behalf of Purchaser. I am not being compensated for this testimony other than through regular

compensation in connection with my position at Purchaser; I received no payments specifically

payable on account of this testimony. If I were called upon to testify, I could and would testify

competently to the facts set forth in this Declaration.

               5.      Purchaser is not an “insider” of the Debtors, as that term is defined in

Section 101(31) of the Bankruptcy Code. There is no common identity of directors or

controlling equity interest holders between Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Debtors, on the

other hand, and Purchaser does not control the Debtors in any respect. Purchaser negotiated the

Sale Transaction with the Debtors and the Debtors’ financial advisors in good faith and from

arm’s-length bargaining positions, at all times represented by competent counsel of its choosing.

The Purchase and Sale Agreement and Sale Transaction were negotiated, proposed and entered

into by Purchaser without collusion or fraud.

               6.      Purchaser reviewed and complied, in all material respects, with the Sale

Procedures and agreed to subject its offer for the sale of the Anthropic Shares to the Sale

Procedures set forth in the Order.




                                                 -2-
          Case 22-11068-JTD        Doc 16380-4       Filed 05/31/24    Page 74 of 74




               7.     Purchaser understood that the Debtors were free to negotiate with any

other party interested in acquiring the Anthropic Shares during the time Purchaser and Seller

were negotiating the Sale Transaction and the Purchase and Sale Agreement. Purchaser has not

engaged in any conduct that could, to my knowledge and understanding, result in the avoidance

of the Sale Transaction or assessment of damages under section 363(n) of the Bankruptcy Code.

Purchaser has not acted in a collusive manner with any person, and the purchase price for the

Anthropic Shares to be purchased by Purchaser was not controlled by any agreement among

Purchaser and Anthropic, PBC, or Purchaser and any other bidders or potential bidders.

                      Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1746, I declare under penalty of perjury that the

foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.

               Dated: May 24, 2024.




                                                 Essa M A A H Ibrahim
                                                 Director
                                                 Manius Invest Co Ltd




                                               -3-
